:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-06

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 1] December 6, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 1 - The Beginning)

Once upon a time, there was a game developer living in his mom's basement.

Although it was years after he graduated from a liberal arts college, he still could not manage to find his first job. As a result, he had no choice but follow his childhood dream - that is, making video games for a living.

From now on, we will simply refer to him as "GameDev", for his name is not important for the story.

Months after months, and years after years, he spent all of his time trying to come up with the best video game in the world as a solo developer. He drew his own concept arts, wrote his own backstories, and coded his own scripts for gameplay.

Yet such a prolonged period of solitude was mostly in vain, and he faced constant disillusionment and sheer frustration. His own talent, as well as his feeble struggle to illuminate it, resulted in hardly anything other than a series of howls in empty, heartless space.

It was one sunny day during which he finally discharged his last remaining vestige of masculine indignation.

"This is meaningless!" Exclaimed GameDev, in the midst of his personal Unity license renewal.

He punched a side of his plastic desk. A pair of pennies, an outdated key, and a Papa John's coupon flung themselves across the air and violently hit the floor. He cried.

"This is utterly meaningless! I woke up in the morning just like any other morning. I have, once again, yet another handful of ideas for another indie game. Then what? What is the meaning of this?"

He stood up and wandered in desperation.

"If I devise yet another game and publish it, what difference will it make? There are millions of games being produced by countless experts all over the world, and mine will probably be overlooked anyways. What is the point of such an endeavor, then?

"There are so many talented folks out there - those extroverted 'influencers' who always socialize with ease, work with teams of passionate minds, and never fail to win the heart of the audience. They fill the world of entertainment with the utmost understanding of what everybody wants to see, hear, and feel. Who am I, then, in this Colosseum of bread and circuses?"

He lied down on the cold concrete floor, and gazed at the ceiling. The whole room as dead silent, which enabled him to hear his own resonance of exhaustion in a painfully clear manner.

"Maybe I have been dreaming in my own fantasy, while the real world was something completely different."

Suddenly, a loud thud broke out and interrupted his existential speculation.

GameDev hurriedly rose up, thinking that somebody sneaked into the basement. He looked around to find a nearby stick, just in case of an unwelcome intruder.

"Be not afraid," said a strange voice out of nowhere.

He turned toward the direction of the sound. To his surprise, he saw an enormous pink square hovering amidst thin air, directly facing him. It was a perfect square with neither texture nor any sign of reflection. It simply emitted pure magenta, which was equally bright in every angle.

"Who are you?" Asked GameDev, suspecting that he was hallucinating.

"I am the light of your mind," replied the square. "I am here to help you become a successful game developer."

The square began to move across the room at a constant speed, while keeping its face directly towards GameDev.

Several seconds later, the square hit the wall, bounced back at the angle of reflection without any apparent loss of momentum, and immediately ceased its motion once it came right in front of GameDev.

"First of all, my pronouns are she/her," murmured the square. "But don't get me wrong, I am genderless. The purpose of this is to let the reader easily distinguish between you and I while following the story."

GameDev nodded and said, "Understood. It is a pretty clever idea. I wonder why the author hasn't won a Nobel Prize in Literature yet."

The square continued her speech. "You are tired of this perpetual cycle of hopelessness, aren't you? I am here to save you from this self-inflicted curse of yours. I know you need some guidance regarding the question of your future vocation, which is quite complicated in nature and cannot be summarized by your inner voice alone."

"I agree," admitted GameDev. At this point, he didn't really care whether he was dreaming or whether the square was just a piece of his own imagination; he was desperate enough to seize any string of hope that was handed over to him, and had no luxury to care about its legitimacy.

"That's why I came over to you, from the deepest and most abused organ of your only friend over there," said the square majestically. A floating finger popped out of nowhere and indicated the gaming PC which was located in the darkest corner of the basement.

While making a bouncy pointing gesture, the finger accidentally touched the headphone which was hanging on the chair. The headphone fell to the ground, so the finger grabbed and placed it back to where it was.






:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-07

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 2] December 7, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 2 - The Way)

"Anyway, you get the idea," said the square. "You are trapped in the middle of nowhere, not knowing what to do to make sense of what you are aiming for. You want to become a competent gamedev, yet do not possess any major resource to make that happen. You are left clueless in your own prison of wishful thinking."

"Yes, you are right," GameDev conceded rather painfully. "What should I do, then?"

"Which things have you been trying?" Asked the square.

GameDev replied. "I tried many things, including concept arts, mechanics, lores, plots, dialogues, and many others. Some of them worked out pretty nicely, but the problem is that I am not the only one who makes such attempts."

"You know it very well," answered the square with a light grin. "You know exactly what the problem is. The game industry is saturated. Even if you come up with the most groundbreaking masterpiece, your work will most likely be forgotten."

"I know."

"And people's attention span is shorter than the shortest ruler required to measure the size of your soul."

"What to do, then?" Inquired GameDev.

"Just give up, if you have enough humility to do so," she replied.

"I cannot," he insisted. "It is not that games are my lifelong passion or something; I am way past that sort of juvenile ego. I am unable to forsake my dream not because I am emotionally attached to it, but because there is nothing else I am particularly good at."

The square flickered a couple of times and resumed her voice. "You clearly understand why you are stuck in Limbo. You have a rather abstract goal to which you would like to dedicate your life, but you are not sure if you are approaching it the right way."

She enlarged herself for a brief moment, and then shrank back in size. "Although you haven't mentioned, I know that you are aware of the horror that is visible everywhere. Every morning, you witness yet another technological 'innovation' which promises to render human endeavor obsolete. Meanwhile, more and more people join the party and the heat of competition never calms down because 'making a game' is becoming easier than ever."

The square paused. GameDev tried to think of something to say, yet he failed to do so because her speech was rather dry and uninspiring. What she just said was pretty much what he already had in his mind.

"But," she resumed, "You ought to behold that, while there are a thousand obstacles hindering your way, there are also a thousand keys to unlock your way out. They are all right before your face; you are just too blind to recognize them."

"What do you mean?" Inquired GameDev.

She explained. "Opportunities are everywhere. There are so many, yet most people do not perceive them because they do not see the other side of what they have been facing. This is why the competition never eases itself, nor does it ever change its trajectory; most of its participants only know how to solve a problem in one way, without ever thinking of the possibility that other solutions might exist."

"I know that there are so-called 'hidden opportunities'," said GameDev, "which I take with a grain of salt because most of them are just trendy buzzwords pitched by marketing experts."

"Exactly," said the square with a chuckle. "That is why most people grab false clues and constantly get lured into thinking that they are pioneers of something revolutionary, while all they are doing is simply worship the latest fad and follow it like a herd of clueless sheep."

She continued. "I am speaking of real opportunities, not the phony ones you just mentioned."

"Every salesman talks like that," he responded with a rather explicit form of contempt.

"Unless you are conversing with someone trustworthy, for sure," the square reproached. "I am here not for the purpose of selling anything, but to show you the way."

"What is the 'way' you are talking about?" He inquired suspiciously.

"The way," she answered.

GameDev thought for a couple of seconds and asked, "You mean, the way to become a successful game developer?"

"It's a rhetorical question, isn't it?" She replied. "You know that the 'way' you are searching for is indeed supposed to fulfill your current desire. While there may be multiple ways, we will still be able to treat them as one as long as they all guide you to the same destination."

"How can you tell for sure," interrupted GameDev with a doubt, "that you are able to show me a way which is guaranteed to work? I have made numerous attempts to find one, yet they all turned out to be in vain."

The square moved closer to GameDev and gently whispered. "In order to discover a solution, you must dig deep into the heart of the problem and divine its true nature. And to do that, you must experience every aspect of what makes up a game."

Before GameDev had time to respond, she ascended by a few inches and made a brief humming noise. In a second, the whole basement disappeared and they were both surrounded by a mysterious panorama of colorful lights.







:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-09

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 3] December 9, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 3 - The Amusement Park)

GameDev looked around in surprise, and found out that he was standing in the middle of a small plaza.

"Where are we?" He asked.

"We are in the Amusement Park, the place where only fun and smiles are allowed," answered the square.

He observed his surroundings and saw a carousel, a clown handing over lollipops to children, and a myriad of colorful cabins embellished with cartoon characters and scintillating rainbow orbs. Over the roofs, colossal roller coasters were pouring gushes of joyous scream into the void.

The square shouted with pride. "Don't look so distressed like that. This is the place of pure happiness. You must have fun, and fun only, with a big smile on your face."

GameDev looked away in sheer confusion. On his left, he saw a horde of bumper cars jostling like nervous mice. Their passengers were throwing bouncy beach balls at each other, laughing frantically.

"What is the meaning of this?" He asked.

"You are literally seeing games - lots of games," answered the square proudly. "Look at the Ferris wheel over there, the pirate ship over here, and the spooky ghost house right behind you! Every ride you see here is a game you can enjoy."

"Games are supposed to be interactive," insisted GameDev.

"Are they?" she responded with a grin. "Or is it merely an illusion of interactivity you are talking about? People play games not to interact, but to see what they want to see."

GameDev disagreed. "A game still needs to involve interactions in order to let people choose what they want."

Upon hearing this, the square mused for a bit. There was a round of fireworks going on over the Amusement Park's iconic castle. Once their thunderous claps were dispersed, she spoke up again.

"A decent game gives the audience free will. A competent game gives the audience what they want for free. Remember that convenience trumps hard-earned happiness; one's freedom of choice is nothing more than a moral fantasy as long as one is not willing to choose."

"What do you mean?" GameDev asked.

She moved forward and continued to speak. "Being able to make decisions is indeed an alleged virtue of those who feign their intellect. Yet when it comes to choosing between an easy treat and a hard treat, the vast majority will pick the easy one. And the best game is one which promises to feed you spoonfuls of sugar without forcing you to think."

"It won't work in the long run," said GameDev. "People are smart enough to discern such a condescending type of psychological exploitation."

"Oh, you have no idea," exclaimed the square. "In the world flooded with countless games, only a few which fulfill the player's gluttony in the most embarrassingly blatant manner will win the race."

She moved aside to let him watch his surroundings once again. There were various rides all over the Amusement Park, all busily undertaking their soulless mechanical movements to entertain their visitors. Their perpetual clockwork ceaselessly inhaled and exhaled waves of people. This left GameDev dumbfounded.

"Every one of these rides is a game chosen by the crowd," said the square melancholically. "It does not matter whether these rides are simply repeating the same old ritual; people chose to ride them anyways, and your definition of what a game is supposed to be has no voice here."

GameDev tried to say something cynical in response to her speech. While he was about to do so, however, he saw a child tapping a gigantic red button to crack open a piñata which was placed right before an automatic slapstick. He became pensive.

After a minute or so, a sudden flash of wit crossed his mind. "Although focusing on the player's utmost desire is indeed an effective means of selling the game," he suggested, "such a method quickly gets old. Besides, since so many games are taking such a route, coming up with yet another silly ride is hardly going to make any profit unless it is aided by an enormous marketing budget."

"The majority's voice is always right," mumbled the square, "when it comes to popularity. You may fancy that novelty is a hidden path to success, but from a statistical point of view, nothing beats mediocrity. The average is the average for a reason."

"But competing will be too hard unless I try something different," he protested.

She responded grimly. "The size of your potential audience will surmount the weight of such a drawback. You may invent something revolutionary and write a whole new page of history out of its legacy, but the fate of a rebel is lifelong ridicule. It all boils down to the matter of chance. You are very likely to fail if you do not follow the norm."

GameDev interrupted. "Is this the only advice you can give to me?"

"No," answered the square. "I am not done yet. These 'games' you have seen so far indeed reveal part of the truth, yet they do not represent the entirety of it. I will show you that there are more things going on behind the stage."

She moved away a bit and made another humming noise.







:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-13

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 4] December 13, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 4 - The Great Sandbox)

In a moment, the colorful sources of light disappeared and left both the square and GameDev imprisoned in utter darkness. After a few seconds, the whole scene rapidly transitioned into that of a desolate wasteland, resembling that of an interstate freeway in Nevada.

GameDev looked around, perplexed. They were no longer in the middle of the Amusement Park. Instead, they were both standing upon a vast desert plain of a flat and endless horizon, vividly lit by the yellow Sun.

"What is this place?" He asked.

"This is the Great Sandbox, the infinite playground in which you are free to do anything we want," answered the square in a jovial tone.

GameDev walked a few steps forward, and found out that the ground was a massive heap of fine sand. There was not even a single distinguishable object in the area.

The square continued. "This is the land of boundless opportunities, and you are playing the ultimate game of creation here. As the god of this world, you are free to build, manipulate, and destroy everything. Say any word, and it will come alive."

With a bit of doubt, GameDev whispered the word "castle". Suddenly, a huge sandstorm summoned itself out of nowhere, devoured a mound of sand nearby, and turned itself into a colossal castle which resembled that of the Disney Logo.

"What the-?" He stuttered.

"Yes, you have that power," responded the square proudly. "You are the king of infinite space, and the only bottleneck of your creativity is the limit of your own imagination."

GameDev, out of curiosity, uttered a few other words which happened to cross his mind. A forest of grotesque-looking rainbow trees populated the field of ghostly loneliness, and a fountain of a Greco-Roman motif brewed itself out of a dry hill. Angelic figures appeared out of the blue and began to partake in aerial movements, while large exotic animals crawled out of a boiling green river which crossed the castle in a rather sophisticated way.

"What is the point of all this?" Asked GameDev, profoundly puzzled.

"Why, you are the one who made these decisions," returned the square triumphantly. "Admire your own creations which filled up the vacuum of this deserted world, and enjoy your time observing their intriguing behaviors. The whole universe is yours."

GameDev approached the stone temple which was raised in front of him, and touched one of its porcelain ornaments.

Suddenly, every single creation, including the temple, the fountain, trees, angelic figures, animals, the castle, and countless others, collapsed into mere piles of colored sand. He couldn't do anything but simply stand where he was, tossing a somber glance upon the heartless destruction which embraced him.

"Not in this manner, no," he insisted. "Although I am free to interact in whichever way I desire, this place is utterly emotionless and there is nothing motivating me to exercise my freedom. This desert is hopelessly devoid of meaning, and my infinite power is of no use here."

"Isn't the goal of play fulfilled as long as there are choices given?" She asked.

GameDev replied. "Only meaningful choices count. They ought to push me to either success or failure depending on which one I pick, and whether I succeed or not should be of some value to me."

"What value?" She inquired, rather rhetorically.

"It must be a value which originates from some kind of secret," answered GameDev. "There must be some unknown treasure hidden behind the scene - something so precious, that I cannot help myself but strive to know more of it, despite myriads of painful yet courageous endeavors which must be undertaken. If I already know everything, no discovery will be meaningful."

"Why should there be a secret?" Questioned the square.

He thought for a second and resumed his argument. "It is because whenever there is something unknown, I gain an opportunity to suspect that it is a threat which may harm me if I do not take precautions against it. Not knowing everything means having something to fear. And as long as there is something to fear, I will stay motivated to take every necessary action to know more about it, so as to be able to learn how to protect myself from it."

The square followed the direction of the wind for a moment and stopped all of a sudden. She returned to her original spot and said, "So, your choice of action is meaningless unless it pertains to your survival instinct, huh? And the best way to guarantee it is to surround yourself with invisible hazards."

"Yes, exactly," he answered.

She pondered a bit and then continued to speak. "Very well. But it sounds to me that, if you were to design your own game, you would want your audience to worship your narratives based upon fear."

"No," interrupted GameDev. "Although fear may play a part, it is the sense of mystery itself which does the magic because it is where all sorts of wonderful imaginations come into being."

"It makes sense," murmured the square. "I will then show you the vision you just described."

She lifted herself a bit and made a rapid sequence of chirps.







:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-14

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 5] December 14, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 5 - The Haunted House)

Once again, there came a rather bizarre sort of change in the environment. A loud storm enveloped the entire dome of the skyscape and rapidly revolved what seemed to be the whole celestial body veiled by the lucidity of daylight.

After a short blink of time, the wind calmed down and both GameDev and the square were in a wide living room made out of old grayish wood. It was quiet and dark, and only the slight glimpse of moonlight gave visual cues to the interior of the area.

"Are we in a mansion?" GameDev inquired.

The square gave a gentle answer. "Close. This is the Haunted House, and I can confidently say that you and I are standing inside the most mysterious place in the world."

GameDev waited a while to let his eyes adjust themselves to the unprecedented darkness. Then, he closely inspected the space around him. There was a cold, ashy fireplace amidst the central recess of the house, besides a dusty bookshelf, a table with an oil lamp, and a partially burnt brick column.

Before he could ask her what was so mysterious about it, a coffin-like cabinet behind him opened up and emitted an intense beam of green light.

A puff of yellow smoke came out of its greenish flame and turned into a semi-translucent skull. It revolved for about 7 times in rapid succession, faced GameDev directly, and cried:

"Beware! When the planets are aligned and the crescent moon shatters into three quarters, you will drink the blood of my long-deceased ancestors."

Then the skull turned into an enormous blob of purple slime, rapidly grew itself to fill the entire house with scintillating purple light, and disappeared immediately.

"What does this mean?" GameDev asked. He was irritated by his own confusion.

"Oh, it is up to you to figure out," she replied. "This abandoned site is the den of countless unknown beings. Some call them 'ghosts', while others refer to them as extraterrestrial demons from another dimension. We have never found out the cause of the supernatural phenomena which have been occurring here."

As soon as she finished her last sentence, the fireplace made an explosive sound and began to vomit swarms of light-emitting butterflies. Their wings were made of real butter.

"Is this..?" Inquired GameDev in a suspicious tone.

"Yes, this is another paranormal activity - purely mysterious, exotic, and unknowable," answered the square.

Before there was any time for further investigation, the whole house abruptly dismantled into oblivion. The walls disappeared, the floor disappeared, and both the square and GameDev found themselves hovering in the midst of empty space. Only stars and distant galaxies filled up their surroundings.

"Are we-" He tried to ask, but a loud vibratory noise interrupted him.

They were zooming towards a gigantic red star, which quickly transformed into a ring of fire. At the center of the ring were three green eyes, all staring at the two visitors in a fierce manner.

"Okay, this is just completely random and meaningless," he uttered rather contemptuously. "I keep seeing strange things, but they do not mean anything to me."

"Think of it as a game," replied the square. "You are here to solve a complex puzzle, filled with wonders that are hard to grasp but can potentially show you a whole new treasure box of discoveries. Just be patient, and you will find out."

"If this is a game, I will say that it is an exceptionally lame one," he murmured bitterly. "The experience I am having right now is indeed saturated with mysteries, yet they do not mean anything to me because they have failed to show me why I must be interested in them."

She beamed a light smile and said, "You are thinking too deeply. Most people who play games do not try to reason with what they see. They simply want to have fun, and the feeling of cluelessness is one sugary ingredient to spice up such a purpose."

GameDev rejected her claim. "No, I don't think a random mixture of bizarre images is all it takes to get people's attention. The audience is smart enough to discern such a lazy trick, as it is so obvious that its goal is to hide the game's lack of design."

"No one wants to see any genuine hint of intricacy," said the square. "What a gamer wants to see is a proof that the world is so helplessly random and out of place, that no educated worldview should be preferred over a less educated one. You better not ruin this shared fantasy in which one's shortage of intellect is taken not as a room for improvement, but as a mere difference in taste."

She then raised herself a bit and whistled. The Haunted House came back to where they were and once again enclosed them under the shadow of darkness, although those three annoying eyes were still gazing at them through the window, occasionally eye-rolling to express their passive aggression.

"I do understand what you mean, though," said the square solemnly. She moved about in a rather nervous fashion and resumed her line of speech. "I will show you something else which you might be interested in."

She shuddered a bit. A wave of mist came over and wrapped both of them in silence.







:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-16

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 6] December 16, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 6 - The Laboratory of Intellects)

After the mist was gone, GameDev saw that they were no longer in the house. Instead, they were inside a vast hallway with a great number of classical mahogany doors in it.

"We are in the Laboratory of Intellects," explained the square. "This is where all sorts of exciting academic experiments take place."

There were quite a considerable number of people moving from door to door, all wearing black gawns and wearing square hats.

She continued to describe what they were seeing. "Each door leads to a small office room, in which a unique interdisciplinary research is going on. Come here, and let us enter room 105; this is where a team of bright minds are investigating a new, revolutionary way of developing a game."

GameDev followed her guidance. As they entered the room, they were confronted by a couple of large whiteboards filled with numerous mathematical formulas and diagrams. Over these scholastic barricades were several desks, where there were about four researchers rapidly skimming through a pile of engineering books.

One of them, noticing the square's presence, stood up and welcomed her with a courteous greeting. Then, after conversing a bit, the researcher faced GameDev and spoke.

"Hello, I am glad to see you. We are a group of scientists who have been undertaking a mission to invent a whole new genre of serious games, which will defy the age-old prejudice that a game is nothing more than just a piece of entertainment," said the researcher with a great deal of enthusiasm.

"I agree," said GameDev. "May I hear more about it?"

"Oh, sure. We are currently investigating a new method of redefining the very conception of what a game is. We have found out that, in order to do so, we must design the entire game based upon a strictly mathematical model of our natural environment which can be derived from physics, chemistry, biology, and other academic disciplines."

"Interesting," he pondered. "What kind of model would that be?"

"It is essentially a graph-based automaton which simulates our planet's ecosystem, in which each vertex represents the population of a species and each directed edge represents the probability that a predator will consume its prey at each time step. The system's feedback loop is controlled by a series of bio-rhythms with their own adjustable coefficients, each of which is a temporal sinusoid with its own unique frequency. They play a crucial role when it comes to simulating the environmental effects of the day/night cycle, seasons, and other phenomena which would've been a nightmare to implement if we were to map them into abstract data objects and their real-time spatial relations."

"Okay."

"But of course, this is the internal mechanism. The player will simply observe the ecosystem by means of a top-down 3D view of the planet, which will only render the overall contour of the globe as long as the camera is sufficiently far away from the surface. As the camera zooms in, our procedural content generator will select terrain patches which intersect with the player's FOV and populate them on the fly using a coordinate-based random seed as well as the current state of the ecosystem. The latter will be used to deterministically populate each patch by instancing procedurally generated 3D animal/plant meshes. This way, the player will be able to look up any region of the planet and still confirm that it appropriately reflects the overall stochastic distribution of the species."

"Sounds interesting."

After the conversation was over, GameDev politely yet silently walked out of the room and sat down on a bench which was located next to the hallway's central palm garden.

"Did it inspire you?" Asked the square.

He muttered. "No. Although their theory does involve intriguing details, I don't think that it will stand out in the gaming market."

"Why do you think so?" She queried. "Don't you see that their plan is thoroughly logical and elaborate?"

He stood up and began to roam. "I agree with your point," he spoke with bitterness. "These guys are unfathomably smart and I know it. However, their intellect hardly applies outside of their own prison of sophistry, as far as gaming is concerned."

The square came closer to him and chortled ironically.

"So, you don't believe that creating an intelligent system and making a game out of it is not good?" She questioned.

GameDev stopped walking and faced her directly. "I do believe that a game must be designed intelligently, and ought to be more self-consistent than a mere cesspool of random puzzle pieces which do not even fit together. But a system made out of pure logic alone is not going to work either, since it is utterly soulless!"

"What do you prefer, then?" She inquired.

He answered. "A game must possess not only solid mechanics, but also solid narratives. It must touch the heart of one's emotions in order to give meaning to the whole story. A system of logic alone cannot fulfill this unignorable goal."

As soon as he finished talking, another wave of mist came over and veiled everything.