:d:An article about The Sims.
:k:Sims, Sims1, Sims2, Sims3, Sims4, Customizability, Sandbox, Godgame, Maxis

[My Younger Days with The Sims] 2022

When I was a 3rd grader, back in 2002, I had a chance to play a stunningly unique videogame at the time called "The Sims". It was basically a game about life itself, in which the player could even simulate the daily routines of themselves. This "life simulator", compared to other AAA titles, was so drastically original back in those days. One could build their own houses, virtual human beings with customizable personalities, as well as their own narratives by fancying imaginary storylines over the top of the apparent gameplay.

I played The Sims for quite a long time throughout my school years, during which I tried all sorts of meta-game features of it because one of the major downsides of The Sims was that its core gameplay tended to be a bit too repetitive and boring. Those included:

(1) Downloading custom items (e.g. user-made furniture, etc) from the internet and applying them to the game,
(2) Building houses and sharing them with other players (inside a web forum),
(3) Making cartoons by taking in-game screenshots and adding captions to them,
(4) Working as a staff member in one of The Sims fan community websites (i.e. managing user accounts, etc),

and so on.

The Sims, by nature, was a highly customizable game. One could introduce new items, houses, textures, soundtracks, and skins to the game simply by adding files to the game's directory, instead of going through any extraneous processes. Hence the availability of external tools (such as SimPose) further allowed users to create their own unique contents based off of The Sims.

The Sims occupied a special place of my youth, since it served as an inanimate mentor which ultimately guided me to become who I am today. It inspired me to first explore other kindred simulation games made by Maxis, which in turn introduced me to the notion that a videogame could potentially come out not just as a manually sculpted piece of entertainment, but also as a generic "engine of the universe" upon which players could build their own narratives.

Eventually, this early experience led me to study engineering and later on become a full-time game developer.

I hadn't really had an opportunity to work on an engineering-heavy simulation game during my early career years (I mostly worked on casual mobile games), but such hidden potentials of the game industry have always been the major source of inspiration to me. This oftentimes drove me to write code that had a tendency to be overly generic (aka "abstract"), which some people probably did not like because it lacked immediate applicability in specific gameplay scenarios, yet it was never due to some form of intellectual snobbery; rather, it was due to my heart's commitment to explore as much breadth of the game's possibility space.







:d:An article about usefulness of knowledge.
:k:Usefulness, Pragmatism, Theoretical, Practical

[Usefulness] 2022

"But... is it useful for anything?"

This is a common question which arises among school students when they confront a seemingly obscure theory, such as an abstract concept in mathematics. Whenever a teacher presents the students with a new idea that is not obviously applicable to real-life examples, some of them even deny the authenticity of the education they are receiving because of this.

Some educators answer this question by providing their students with the most down-to-earth type of examples, so as to demonstrate the usefulness of the theories that they are trying to convey. American math textbooks, for instance, are usually covered with images of roller coasters, industrial robots, and other "useful" cases of mathematics in our daily life. This creates a sense of: "You must eat these vegetables in order to get healthy".

Taking pragmatic necessity as a hostage is a valid short-term strategy, and it does work in cases where a student is particularly interested in real-life applications whilst showing particular disdain towards pure theory. However, this approach introduces two major problems:

(1) Emphasis on "usefulness" hides the true beauty of the theoretical subject. By treating geometry as a mere tool for industrial design and optimization, the educator is downgrading pure theory into some kind of "technical cookbook" for specific use cases instead of preserving geometry's original source of fascination which did not rely on practical applications (e.g. Ancient Greek notion of the essence of space, as well as its implications regarding the structure of the universe).

(2) It encourages students to learn the subject in a superficial manner, oftentimes by memorizing technical rules and exercising some kind of puzzle-solving dexterity. This mode of learning has its own benefits, yet it deters students from really trying to understand the essence of the knowledge by burying them in a heap of specific case-by-case scenarios which are nothing more than reiterated versions of the same old concept. This tendency further enhances when students are exposed to a highly competitive environment, in which memorizing a bunch of problem-solving recipes is considered a far more efficient way of outperforming one's competitors than reasoning with fundamentals.






:d:An article about whether knowledge can ever be considered useless.
:k:Knowledge, Education, STEM, Academia

[Useless Knowledge?] 2022

One thing I have learned throughout my academic years is that there is no such thing as "useless knowledge"; it is only the circumstance which puts certain types of knowledge into a temporary state of coma.

In today's job market, people who majored in literature when they were in college generally have much lower chances of landing on a job than, say, those who majored in STEM subjects such as math, science, and engineering. Yet, can we really say that studying literature is intrinsically useless by any means, just because it is not in sync with today's market demand?

What if somebody suddenly invents a revolutionary AI robot that is capable of replacing all existing industrial tools and can only be programmed by writing source code in the form of literature instead of programming languages? I daresay this is probably not going to happen any time soon, but if we ever get a chance to see that happen, the vast majority of software engineers who are more fluent in speaking C++ than plain English will be screwed.

Job recruiters will start asking if whichever candidate they are looking forward to hire as an intern possesses "+10 years of professional experience in classical literature", or has "either a Bachelor's or Master's degree in creative writing". Teenagers and young adults will be labelled as delusional dreamers whenever they say they want to become a programmer. The ability to code will be regarded as such an embarrassingly juvenile skillset, that it will even be disadvantageous for a job applicant to list it in one's resume.







:d:An article about the nature of debate and distortion of reality.
:k:Reality-Distortion, Debate, Verbal, Discussion, Politics, Political-Narratives, Extremism

[Verbal Debate] 2022

Verbal debate is oftentimes considered the most ideal form of communication among individuals who disagree with each other, especially in western civilization.

I do understand why this is so, for a couple of obvious reasons. When people are directly speaking to one another face-to-face, they can read each other's facial expressions and body languages, as well as various phonetic nuances that cannot be conveyed through written language. Also, the nature of speech keeps things concise and direct, allowing arguments to be settled in a more decisive manner than through a painstaking back-and-forth exchange of written words. Yet, I would like to suggest some of the downsides of this medium of communication.

Some highly opinionated gentlemen, who would rather identify themselves as cross-bearers of their own side of the political spectrum than as individuals who possess their own independent thoughts, often claim that today's society is raising a generation of indoctrinated snowflakes who have lost every ability to engage in a "healthy conversation", due to their ever-growing habit of perpetually reiterating their own dogma inside their own circle of kindred minds.

These honorable patriots, who somehow happened to acquire the most profound wisdom of the universe despite having the privilege of spending their younger years during the most prosperous epoch of the most prosperous state of the entire human history, back up this claim by coming up with video footages of young college students who refuse to fully participate in a face-to-face "political conversation" which suddenly popped out of nowhere in the midst of a random campus area. Such "evidences" of the incompetence of today's young intellectuals, for sure, are not difficult to obtain because the ones who started off such a seemingly random debate are the ones who were the most meticulously prepared for it, while those "spoiled kids" just happened to be on their way to their next lecture in which they were about to focus their mental energy on their mission to carry on the legacy of their older generations.

I am personally not a fan of verbal debate not necessarily because I am not particularly talented in speech, but because its original purpose can be severely distorted due to many factors. Unless every participant of a verbal discussion is well prepared for its subject, gentle enough to not cut off others while they are speaking, careful not to judge the other speaker's intellect based upon his/her voice, accents, and speed of verbal articulation, as well as generous enough to understand that it is not always about "winning an argument", it is a matter of time until the whole conversation degrades into some kind of superficial dexterity competition, in which whoever comes up with a series of most immediately convincing arguments as quickly as possible is considered the greatest speaker (regardless of whether or not they really turn out to be valid arguments when analyzed later on).






:d:An article about mathematics.
:k:Math, Mathematics, Beauty, Theorem, Proof, Sophism

[True beauty of mathematics] 2022.10

Those who have studied mathematics from a perspective of contemplative immersion would agree with the statement: "Math is beautiful". When the exact origin of such an abstract sense of delight is concerned, however, there seems be a profound sense of dissonance.

On the one hand, a person may claim that mathematics is a fascinating subject because everything in it is deeply related to another. One could preach the charm of mathematical wonders by going on like this:

"There is a theorem here which is derived from the other theorem there, from which we can derive a special equation which reveals a pattern we are all familiar with when we plug in this special constant! And we can also use this same equation for solving any homogeneous differential equation of type 'A', where type 'A' refers to one of the special classes of equations defined in that other lemma I mentioned before. In that lemma, we can plug in the other formula from the previous theorem, and by doing so we will reveal yet another special variable, which is the same as the one we saw in the first theorem! And..."

Such a series of passionate exclamations, originating from a conviction that mathematical concepts are "beautiful" because there are so many ways in which one can somehow connect them with each another, are nothing but the tip of the iceberg. A jungle of technical rules, within which one may find a bucketful of resemblances, congruences, and other apparent patterns of synchronicity, do not represent math itself. Rather, they merely embody layers upon layers of abstract byproducts radiating from a stream of consciousness.

The true beauty of mathematics lies in its intrinsic implications inside the domain of metaphysics. Math is fundamentally philosophical in nature, meaning that it is an area of study which seeks to contemplate upon the essence of thoughts themselves in their purest form, rather than to build layers of meaningless abstraction on top of them.







:d:An article about the potential usage of power supply as a form of currency,
:k:Electricity, Power, Energy, AC, Currency, IP/TCP, Generator

[Electricity as a Currency] 2022.10

In the future, people will be able to use electricity as a currency.

The future internet has a built-in protocol which supports direct exchange of electrical power between any pair of users. The private key of the owner of any batch of electrical energy will be encoded in the form of slight frequency variations in the power line's high-voltage AC waves (similar to FM signals).

Sending electricity from one IP endpoint to another will simply be part of the existing HTTP protocol. That is, the amount of electric charge that is promised to be transferred to the recipient will just be one of the parameters of the sender's HTTP request header.

Electrical substations in the recipient's local area, with the help of inter-data transformers which automatically convert fiber-optic IP/TCP signals into their AC analogues, will figure out who owns which electrical impulses within the stream of power that has been being transferred concurrently, and redistribute such identifiable blocks of energy to their appropriate owners.

Being able to send energy directly to someone else through the internet allows people to use it as a global currency. Inflation is not a primary issue here because the only way to increase the total amount of currency in circulation is to generate more electricity (which subsequently gets consumed away anyways).






:d:An article about micro-scale real estate business.
:k:Real-Estate, Microtransaction, Nanotransaction

[Millimeter Real Estate] 2022.10

One of the main reasons why real estate cannot be used as a currency is that each unit (e.g. block of land, portion of a building) is too large in scale. This prevents real estate from becoming a medium of small daily transactions such as shopping in groceries.

What if, however, we are able to buy and sell pieces of land in an extremely tiny scale? If people are allowed to exchange square-millimeters of land at a time, each real estate transaction will be able to involve only a fraction of a dollar and thus be carried out in a far more casual way (i.e. just as simple as swiping a credit card).

Square-millimeter landlords are entitled to use these geographic fragments in any way they desire. A person, by making a sequence of tiny transactions, can expand one's own territory by literally "drawing" on a piece of land because each transaction is an equivalent of coloring a single pixel in an image.








:d:An article about the world as a simulation.
:k:Simulation, Witchcraft, Wizardry, Sorcery, Metalinguistics, Magic

[Cosmic Programming] 2022.11

If our universe is a simulation, there would be a "universal machine language" through which the world governs itself.

A computer operates by executing a sequence of machine code instructions. Likewise, a universe which is established on a computational basis must be running a stream of instructions.

If this is indeed the case, those who are able to access and modify parts of the stream must be the ones who have the power to distort the reality itself.

Ancient practices of witchcraft are part of this.

A spell cast by a wizard, for example, is a line of code that is being forcefully injected in the midst of the universe's machine code. This allows the spell to temporarily "hack" the universe by interfering with the way it generates events.








:d:An article on automation, and arts in general.
:k:AI, Arts, AI-Arts, Automation, Generative-AI, Fine-Arts

[Automation of Arts - 1] 2022.11

(Automation of Arts - 1)

The history of engineering has been a history of automating tasks which used to be manually carried out. First it was repetitive physical labor, next it was repetitive computational work (e.g. calculating numbers, organizing a table, etc), and now it is the whole sphere of intellectual activities that is on the verge of being fully automated.

And the scary part of this is that even artists are not safe from the new industrial revolution. Art used to be one of the most exclusively human activities, not assumed to be replaceable by any machine in any way. Yet, we are now witnessing some of the most groundbreaking advancements in the realm of software engineering such as "procedural content generation", "generative AI", "computational semantics", and so on. Some people even claim that artists will become obsolete because of this.

But artists do not deserve to be treated like this! One of the moral obligations of an engineer must be to always endeavor to empower artists, instead of trying to devalue them by automating their job.

It is not my intention to push a lame, cliché argument such as: "Artificial intelligence will never replace real humans because it doesn't have 'real emotion', blah blah....". No. As an engineer, I firmly believe that AI will eventually manage to fully replace artists at least in the area of expressive techniques. In the end, AI will manage to imitate even the deepest core of human intellect and act the same way as real professional artists do.

Even if machines achieve this level of expertise, however, they will never quite touch the essence of what makes an art a "real art". It is not just the material aspect alone which makes a piece of material an "art" in a sense in which it is subconsciously defined by people.





:d:An article on automation, and arts in general.
:k:AI, Arts, Masterpiece, Classic, Artwork

[Automation of Arts - 2] 2022.11

(Automation of Arts - 2)

When we regard an artistic masterpiece, we do not solely admire its apparent physical form. Instead, we admire the entire history of human efforts, as well as people, historical events, and sociopolitical narratives, which interacted with one another in their own rich context and eventually converged into a single physical piece called "artwork".

Some people may accuse this broad interpretation as a form of "intellectual snobbery" and view it through a lens of cynicism. Yet, I would argue that such a type of abstract imagination is what gives meaning to everyone's life in the first place.

When buying products, consumers choose a specific brand over others oftentimes because they are personally attached to it in an emotional way, not necessarily because it is superior to others in terms of material quality. From a marketing point of view, the concept of "fact" and "feeling" (which some political extremists are fond of presenting as an analogue of "Good VS Evil") are not completely isolatable from each other. We can say that it is a "fact" that some consumers prefer certain brands over others because they "feel" that their choice is right. And the eventual result of the consumer's feeling is oftentimes a materially interpretable outcome (aka "profit") which can basically be defined as a "fact" in the context of economic interests.

And because of this interchangeability between "fact" and "feeling", we cannot simply segregate the human part out of a piece of commercial art. What makes an artwork sell itself is a sense of personal attachment - a sense that the customer has an emotional connection with the product that he/she is buying, as well as with the creator of the product who might have shared the same set of cultural narratives and recollections with the customer, as a human being with a soul, and not as an "aesthetic factory" which cunningly mirrors the collective taste of what the majority of people happen to favor.






:d:An article on automation, and arts in general.
:k:Visual-Arts, Art-Business, UBI, Monopoly, Commercial-Art

[Automation of Arts - 3] 2022.11

(Automation of Arts - 3)

Some people may also argue that, while artificial intelligence won't really replace what's called "pure art", it will still manage to take over the jobs of commercial artists because such pragmatic businesses are mainly concerned with the notion of popularity alone. If something is popular, it must be profitable, and so the only thing that the AI will have to do in this case is to simply figure out the most statistically viable formula for maximizing the level of popularity of the product. Want to make a videogame that sells well? Just create a colorful slot machine that contains the most suggestive forms of sex and violence in it. Want to make a piece of food that sells well? Just create an oversized junk food which has tons of sugar, butter, and other addictive ingredients in it. And so on.

However, here's a twist.

One of the reasons why there has been a lack of diversity in consumer culture, is that most people simply do not have enough time to make sophisticated personal decisions as customers. Ever since the dawn of mankind, the vast majority of people have been obliged to work full-time to feed their families and themselves. Most of them, due to sheer lack of time, just have to rely on the safest choice - that is, to buy products that are the most popular and have the most objectively optimal qualities in them.

As technological advancements start freeing the majority of people from the burden of full-time labor (which will inevitably force the society to introduce some kind of UBI (Universal Basic Income) to prevent civil disorder), people will begin to search for alternative meanings in life. And as a result of this, they will begin consuming goods which aim to accentuate the uniqueness of individuals.

Such a new trend will eventually help artists compete against the monopoly of AI-generated commercial arts. As consumers lose their own jobs, they will gain more time to search for commercial products that have subtle human personalities in them, rather than the most popular ones which, when consumed, may somehow create a public impression that anyone who purchased them is a soulless sheep who succumbed to the emotionless world of robots.

Having the right to choose what to buy is the equivalent of having the right to vote in the world of consumers. This is the last remaining weapon that can be used by humanity to fight off the upcoming monopoly of machines.







:d:A thought on the nature of cats.
:k:Cat, Domestication, Livestock, Dairy, Industry, Cow, Domestic, Feline

[Domestication] 2022.11

Human beings are considered the masters of livestock engineering, due to the observation that we have managed to raise countless numbers of chickens, pigs, and cows to our advantage. But when it comes to practical considerations, we cannot deny the fact that cats may have mastered the art of animal domestication in a more quintessential way.

Let us just consider all the benefits which house cats receive on a daily basis for granted, without having to undertake any type of work whatsoever. When a human wants to use chickens, pigs, and cows to one's advantage, he/she must take care of them by providing shelters, foods, medication, and constant cleanups to prevent contamination.

Cats, on the other hand, have domesticated humans in a completely automated way. Cats do not feed humans or provide shelters for them, yet humans constantly serve cats like loyal servants. From a cat's point of view, its human caregiver is a fully automated livestock - a functional equivalent of an intelligent cow which manages to take care of both the cowshed and the owner's house, as well as regularly squirting milk out of its breast, pouring it into a nice cup of tea, and handing it over to the owner every morning.

And cats didn't even have to come up with all sorts of fancy technologies to make this happen. The only price they have to pay for keeping their subscription to the army of self-replicating and self-sustaining ape servants is to look cute and occasionally do some cute things. This is a level of efficiency which mankind couldn't dare to dream of achieving even with the aid of advanced AI, machine learning, big data, and sophisticated industrial pipelines.






:d:A note on generative AI.
:k:AI, Generative, Journalism, Comedy, Story

[Generative AI] 2022.11

With the rise of generative AI, we are heading toward a major crisis which we have never encountered before.

First, it will be artists and designers who are going to lose their jobs. Next, it will be social influencers, storytellers, educators, comedians, journalists, and eventually, engineers.

I want to believe, however, that there is still a hope.

In the novel "The Little Prince", the boy says:

"There might be millions of roses in the whole world, but you’re my only one, unique rose."

Generative AI will eventually be able to design and reproduce millions of roses based on utmost degrees of variety and creativity, undermining the imaginative power of even the most ingenious thinkers of all time. However, it still won't be able to get rid of the awareness that every one of us keeps our own precious little rose in our heart.







:d:A thought an a possible alternative means of data storage.
:k:Analog, Analogue, Data, Storage, Geometry, LP, Record

[Analogue Memory Storage] 2022.12

When you download a 3D model from the internet, your computer stores it in the memory module as long lists of numerical values which refer to the coordinates of the model's individual geometric parts.

Such a method of representing a three-dimensional object, however, is not strictly necessary. What if we just let the computer 3D-print a miniature replica of the model and keep it somewhere within its physical space, and then 3D-scan it whenever the model needs to be displayed on the screen?

When a 3D model is supposed to be modified, the only thing the computer will have to do is simply disintegrate its existing replica and then reconstruct the newer version of it at the same exact spot.








:d:A personal memoir of life as a software engineer at Signal Studios, LLC.
:k:Signal, Studios, Signal-Studios, Bothell, Kirkland, Toy-Soldiers, Ascend, Sleeping-Prince, Call-of-Guardians, Seattle, Washington, Game, Videogame, GameDev, Steam, TS, GungHo, Ubisoft

[A Tribute to Signal Studios] 2022.12

<001_10>

This article is a personal tribute to the company which dwells in the most memorable place of my recollection, Signal Studios, LLC.

Before I delve into details, I would like to go over a brief introduction of Signal Studios for those who have not heard of their name.

Signal Studios, LLC, is a game development company founded upon the Greater Seattle Area of the Washington State, United States, in 2008. Their first major title, Toy Soldiers, was a major hit which delivered a great deal of success and popularity to the company in the early 2010s, subsequently allowing them to develop a number of other legendary titles such as Ascend, Savage Lands, and The Sleeping Prince. The studio then became rather silent for the following few years due to a bit of hardship which existed both internally and externally, and in 2019-2020 they resumed their genuine endeavors to revive their old videogame franchise by partnering with Accelerate Games, Inc, Outer Heaven, Eden Industries, and others.

I worked at Signal Studios as a software engineer from 2017 to 2019. The time was unfortunately rather short, yet it was the period during which I witnessed the most cherishing experience I could summon in the heartiest recess of my ever recurring daydream.

Here is my story.

I graduated from the University of Washington as an EE major during the summer of 2017. I was an international student back then, with the availability of the OPT (Optional Practical Training) program which allowed me to be authorized to work in the United States for at least a year after graduation, so I was quite desperate to grasp an opportunity to be employed by anyone in the field of engineering. The problem was that I did not have any prior engineering experience outside of academia - no internship, no extracurricular engineering activitiy, no participation in any of the open source projects, and so on. Many of my colleagues were quick to have their resumes already filled in with all sorts of glorious titles, along with names of large corporates (e.g. Google, Amazon, Facebook, etc) with whom they had established cordial relationships by the time they were ready to graduate. I, on the other hand, was not so keen enough to discern the practical implication of this and simply maintained a rather foolish belief that being knowledgeable in one's field of expertise would be a sufficient factor for being recognized as a talented (and therefore employable) individual.

I recall attending the university's career fairs as well as submitting at least hundreds of job applications throughout the span of more than a half of my senior year, which were all in vain. Most job openings, including those which even stated that they were looking for "entry level" engineers, required candidates to have already gone through at least 2 or 3 years of prior engineering experience. All of my applications were followed by either silence or formal rejection letters, which could be expected for obvious reasons. Years of study, personal projects, and other efforts to understand the conceptual essence of theories in mathematics, science, and engineering, suggested nothing to them. All they wanted to see was a collection of quantitatively measurable metrics, which was understandable from a statistical point of view. As long as I had neither prior experience nor any acquaintance in the industry who would be generous to recommend me, I was nothing more than an utterly insignificant little rat which deserved not even a chance to have a 5-minute conversation with an engineering lead for the hope of proving its decency.

After another round of job search following the graduation, I became rather frustrated by the nature of formal recruitment processes and began to look for alternative routes. One of the informal approaches I took was to open up a Wikipedia page which had a list of videogame companies in Seattle, visit each one of their company websites, and send emails to their contact addresses asking if they could offer a chance for a recent engineering graduate to work for them. For sure, most of them did not bother to respond probably because they were either too busy developing games, had no currently available job openings, or just could not risk their precious time and capital for training a novice.

And then, one of them responded.

The person who gave me the response was the lead engineer of Signal Studios at the time. He said that he would like to add a programmer to the team, and asked me to send him examples of my engineering work. I sent him the source code of one of the assignments I did in the Digital Image Processing class, and upon receiving it, he got interested and invited me for a brief interview.

It was the summer of 2017, and the air of the Pacific Northwest was warmer than ever. Their office was located in one of those serene suburbs of Bothell, amidst of which were nothing but a few Canadian geese discharging their green feces and a breakfast cafe which had the most delicious English muffin sandwiches I've ever witnessed (In case you wonder, it's "Parkside Deli" in North Creek Parkway Center). When I entered Signal Studios' office room, I was quite surprised to find out that they did not seem to have any apparent intention to "test" me with trick questions or any other means of obscure technical challenges. They did indeed present me with a couple of engineering problems to see the way in which I would approach them, but those were rather casual and were not bound to any specific programming language, development framework, or any of those typical Google-interview-ish algorithms that would appear in a Computer Science textbook. Rather, these were purely conceptual yet practical questions in game development, such as "How would you implement multiple game worlds inside a level-based videogame such as Super Mario Bros?", and so forth.

And the most glistening impression I acquired during the interview was that they were kind enough to explain in detail what they were doing in their current game development project, as though they already had me in mind as their new fellow engineer. They then proceeded to explain that it is not of their primary interest to seek experts who know specific technical standards such as programming languages, jargons, and other petty details which a typical senior programmer with many years of experience may possess but do not necessarily reveal one's aptitude as a true professional (I could tell that they really meant it, since I openly acknowledged that I didn't even know the meaning of the word "singleton" in the context of software engineering during the interview and they were completely fine with it). They said that, as long as an individual is "teachable", there will always be a room for unbounded growth.

The meeting was quite brief, and they told me that they would give me a response within about a week or so. Contrary to my expectation that at least a week would pass in silence, they responded in just a single day saying that they would like to have me as their new team member.

And thus I was blessed with the most graceful decision of theirs.

Now, some of you might raise an eyebrow and say, "Oh, come on! They probably hired you just because they wanted a cheap intern to help complete their project with as little budget as possible. You were simply being used because of cost-effectiveness!" Before such a presumption provides itself with a chance to fill your senses with an air of cynicism, please let me clarify one thing that would be a shame if neglected. First of all, they did not hire me as an intern, nor did they pay me any less than an average American software engineer, ever since the very first day of my career at Signal Studios. They didn't even deduct a penny off of their hourly payment for the first week of my period of contract, which was solely dedicated to training me for the purpose of getting me on board without expecting any direct contribution to the project. This was quite an exquisite blow in my mind, as you may be able to tell, since they clearly possessed every opportunity to carry things out differently to their own advantage.

Note that I was an international student back then, with only a temporary chance of work authorization and absolutely zero career experience. I had no connection with anyone in the industry, nor had I won any prize or participated in any major activity to complement the sheer desolation of any enticement to brand myself as a ready-to-use human resource. I had none of those elaborate focal points of self promotion.

Yet, Signal Studios never chose to exploit this hint of desperation as means of extracting as much merit as possible from a beginner's fountain of passion with the absolute minimum cost. They technically could have hired me as an unpaid intern, as the first year of the OPT program allowed volunteer services to be part of their range of work authorization (as long as they were related to one's major). Or they could have at least reduced my hourly pay and backed up themselves with fine reasons such as, "We are spending lots of resources training you, so it factors as a part of the company's expense!", "You are learning from your job, so the value of the education you are receiving should be considered part of your compensation!", or, "You are an entry-level programmer, so you are not yet experienced enough to contribute with as much speed and efficiency as our experienced engineers do!", and so on. These strategies, however, which were so easy to pull off due to the feeble status and lack of negotiatory ability of mine, were nowhere to be found in them. Instead they hired me, compensated me, and respected me just as much as they would do in regard to an American software developer who had years of experience.

And not only that! They even paid me for every single extra hour I worked for them during weekends, without the slightest glimpse of exception, and later on (after several months or so) granted me a raise even though I never asked for it. It was as though they had completely tossed the notion of "cost reduction" outside of their window when the matter of employment was concerned.

Now, at this point of writing, you might be carrying in your mind an impression that I am some kind of superficial jerk who only cares about money and nothing else. Such a conception is understandable, considering that it indeed has been the pivot of the depiction of my early job experience so far. But before yielding a chance to this apparent bias to let itself draw an imaginary contour of a person whom you probably do not even know personally, please give me the freedom to resolve this potential prejudice by providing a short discourse in regard to the importance of rationality when it comes to the matter of deciding which acts of mercy should be embraced with the most cordial air of gratitude.

Oftentimes, we see groups of ambitious companies which brand themselves with catchy slogans such as, "We don't work just for money. We work because it is fun!", or, "Passion is what drives us to work hard. Money is not everything, and we are glad to be working in a place where everybody can make an impact!", and... you know, I am sure you have heard of such phrases quite a lot in the tech industry. Of course, things like "passion", "vision", "impact", and other cool-sounding ideas embellished with buzzwords can indeed be the main source of motivation which impels a developer to dedicate one's soul to the company's product. We must also be aware, however, that such a cloud of abstract values can just as well be employed by a cunning business owner for the purpose of undermining the significance of objective rewards when it comes to the nature of equity in the labor market, just to get away with as little wage as possible. And many developers, who are too pure in their own sphere of intellectual endeavors to pay attention to such intricate fragments of psychological manipulation, fall into this trap and simply rejoice in their own cage of metaphorical imageries.

What makes Signal Studios the greatest game developer of all from my point of view, is that they never utilized such a method to trick the naive mind of my younger self in any way for their own benefit. Instead of trying to lure me into believing in an abstract, intangible type of compensation by mesmerizing me with grand words and amorphous promises, they simply paid me generously. And you know what? This tells a lot about their immesurable sense of dignity in terms of honesty and straightforwardness.

It is a strictly objective standpoint of mine that, when it comes to being an employee (or a contractor) of a company, financial return should occupy the topmost row of one's priority list. Otherwise, why would a person give him/herself enough humiliation to sacrifice a huge chunk of one's time and energy fulfilling somebody else's goal? Why not just enjoy working on any hobby project of one's choice as an independent developer, if money is not of foremost concern? Do not get me wrong, I am not the kind of person who would exert every bit of mental effort to squeeze every penny off of someone's wallet while refusing to acknowledge the existence of any other dimensions of appreciation that are not tied to monetary interests. I believe in the importance of collective visions, as well as a mode of compassion that is being shared amongst my fellow developers. The problem is, such a subjective set of values should never be used as means of belittling the clemency of those whose blunt yet humble characters encouraged them to embrace their workers with unpolished pieces of diamond which are not grandiose by appearance yet nonetheless possess intrinsic values that are superior to glittering rainbow candies made up of cheap compliments, while they could have elegantly sugarcoated their reputation with subtle excuses and psychological trickeries.

It was not necessarily the absolute amount of cash I received from Signal Studios which made me beg to have an honor to say that I owe them every charmful of admiration. Rather, it was the strangely brute yet juvenile sort of innocence of theirs which inspirited me to have an insurmountable degree of respect and trust in them, outside of any worldly measures. They demonstrated that there could ever be on earth a private company, a body of business which is supposed to be optimized for profit only and nothing else, that operated on the hearts of warm-blooded people who sincerely cared for the well-being of all.

Aside from the absence of stinginess, there were other virtues in them which I was able to perceive with the inner lens of my heart. In order to provide a bit of background knowledge, let me describe in more depth the early days of my work at Signal Studios.

By the time I joined Signal Studios' development team, the company had already been working on a mobile multiplayer game project called "Call of Guardians". They were working with a publisher called GungHo, who had headquarters situated in both Japan and the United States. The course of the project's development was rather stressful to the whole team, as the company's staff had been greatly reduced in size and everybody had to wear multiple hats on some occasions.

I recall the chairman and the lead producer of Signal Studios painstakingly communicating with the publisher, trying to digest various feature requests coming over from multiple departments and laying them out in a way in which they could be handled by engineers/artists with relative ease. What I clearly remember is that these immesurably diligent people, despite the prevalence of moments of exhaustion caused by little morsels of miscommunication as well as dissonance between the publisher's design philosophies and those of their own, put their maximum level of exertion to guard their developers from the pain of endless design reiterations by resolving as many technical discords as possible on their side.

But please don't get me wrong! It is not my intention to blame the publisher for anything. GungHo was a great company to work for; some of their own engineers, who used to provide technical advices regarding the project, were highly insightful and deeply sincere in terms of helping the studio overcome any of the development challenges. Both the publisher and Signal Studios were nests of heartful professionals, who worked day and night pouring truckfuls of their juice of dedication into the cradle of their endearing product.

Nevertheless, the atmosphere of frustration was quite real on the development side due to the presence of seemingly trivial yet cumbersome reasons, which were little bits of discrepancy between their creeds and those of GungHo regarding the technicality of how exactly the game should be designed and implemented. The thing which impressed me the most during this time period was that both the CEO and project manager carried all the burden of this nuisance on their backs and assured the rest of the team with an implicit voice of a paternal figurine which echoed, "It's all right. We've got everything taken care on our side, so don't feel stressed out. Keep working at your own pace, and we will be responsible for the rest."

And I can reassure that it really was the case, as they constantly strived to minimize the necessity of extra work as much as possible by sculpting the publisher's requests into the most streamlined form. We still did spend quite a number of additional work hours during some of their busy weeks, but it was nowhere near the so-called "crunch mode" which many game development companies were notorious for (And again, I mustn't fail to mention that I got paid for every single one of these extra hours).

Another thing I've got to point out regarding the nature of the course of development that was happening at the time, is that the project was not particularly in a good shape by the time I joined the development team. The game as a whole was pretty laggy, and there were plenty of features that were yet to be completed. And to the team's frustration, the number of engineers had been drastically reduced almost down to zero by the end of the year. After a period of sincere mentorship provided by the lead engineer whom I appreciate with all my heart due to the sheer absence of any intention of his to withdraw any mouthful of knowledge from my learning brain for the purpose of gatekeeping, I was pretty much left alone to teach myself and discover solutions on my own. Yet, the CEO and project manager of Signal Studios respected me as a fully qualified engineering professional whom they could put their trust in with respect to making authentic choices, by granting me an almost full control over the whole engineering aspect of the project as soon as they perceived my capability of handling it with an insignia of integrity.

It would've definitely been a safer choice of theirs to use the inexperience and young age of mine as an excuse to immure me in a prison of micromanagement, for the purpose of converting me into a submissive droid who would do nothing but serve the egos of the top-level decision makers. Instead, they granted me an honor to spend time figuring out solutions to problems based off of my own engine of reasoning and intuition. This impelled me to extract every faculty of mine to polish the project with the utmost degree of elegance one could ever dare to imagine, for I feared I might disappoint and lead them to regret their choice of generosity otherwise. I studied the essence of game development by pinning down all sorts of bugs and feature requests as swiftly as possible, refactoring the codebase for efficiency and readability, as well as optimizing various subsystems of the game from low-level to high-level. And when some of the design specifications were hidden behind a fog of war due to the nature of uncertainty in game development, I squeezed every conceivable drop of mental energy from every conjurable corner of my subconscious for the joy of interpolating/extrapolating details outside of the formal domain of definitions and moved on to implement them. This momentum, which sprouted from the purity of respect they had endowed upon me, was unstoppable to the point at which it was mighty enough to shed the friction of productivity which was caused by my initial shortage of experience.

Day and night, an everlasting light of wonderment encompassed my mind with the question, "Is this job even real?", for it was too perfect for me to even fancy to fool myself to believe that I could ever deserve it. Every handful of work I was privileged to do inside their Bothell office was in favor of my undertaking to display a subtle kind of appreciation which I longed to express in words but in vain because the size of the feeling was too great for a bucket of literature to hold.

And here is even more to the story. When the company faced financial difficulties which rendered continued employment rather challenging, the CEO so graciously went on to introduce me to other companies whom he knew quite well, and recommended me as one of their prospective teammates in case he would no longer be able to keep me in his workforce. I didn't even ask for it, he did it voluntarily. Such an act of benevolence was a speechlessly unexpected welcome, that the memory of it appears almost surreal to me even to this day. What I saw in him was neither the pretentious energy of a venture capitalist whose wit is lit by a spotlight of self-importance, nor the shrewdness of a corporate boomer who would throne himself on top of a pile of ladders which were kicked down by the boots of mannerism and political tactics, but an evincement of genuine care solely directed to a fellow human being.

Every single moment I spent in Signal Studios was the most pristine intersection of every ray of delight, emanating from the prism of reverence which I always wished to hold a chance to rub further for the hope of seeing it shine forever. It was the most quintessential period of my life, full of growth, purpose, and unrestrained potentials, which will never return again. Those days had howled their farewell and the iron snowflake of honor which was courageously engraved upon the frail glass bottle of my Millennial soul had long been shattered into oblivion, but I will never forget their pure golden rain of kindness which showered upon the meadow of the Evergreen State.

Now, I am well aware that some of you might not agree with me in terms of the perceived characteristics of this company. As far as I can tell, the general reputation of Signal Studios is not so bright, contrary to the way in which I have hitherto been describing them. As a matter of fact, they have faced a notoriously long list of bitter criticisms both from the community of gamers and that of game development professionals. And you know what? I do understand those grim remarks and do acknowledge the validity of many of their arguments. The presence of certain "personalities" in Signal Studios did indeed suggest a possibility that there were rather bizarre interpersonal confrontations present within the team, which could sometimes be irritating to a considerable degree. Hence, the company used to be significantly bigger in size years before I joined them, so I can, by nature of extrapolation, deduce that a great deal of unpleasant drama and politics would have easily introduced themselves due to chaotic tendencies of a large team. The wondrous experience I had by the time I joined the studio might have been the result of many lessons which the company had to learn after years of struggles in regard to the dynamics of leadership and project management. Maybe I was just extremely lucky to have jumped into the right workforce in just the right time, and it could have been a completely different scenario if I joined them years before.

Nevertheless, the experience I personally had in Signal Studios was marked by pleasures of extraordinary fulfillment, regardless of whether or not mine was an exceptional case that was made possible by a collection of happy coincidences which most other people were not so fortunate to be part of.

And dear fellow supporters of Toy Soldiers, Ascend, and other titles of Signal Studios, who might be reading this article, please bear in mind that they are a group of developers who always strived to present us with a box of fun little toys not for the sake of scrapping off every penny out of naive juniors and quasi-gambling addicts, but for the sake of creating and sustaining a beautiful environment where people could work with an inexplicable sense of dignity. Whenever you happen to notice that they do not respond to your inquiries for an unreasonably long span of time, please do not interpret it as a sign of plain rudeness. Rather, please take it as a sign that they are just as frustrated as you are, considering the time of despondency they had to endure for the hope of reviving their past glories.






:d:A note regarding general-purpose AI.
:k:AI, Artificial, Intelligence, Automation, Revolution, Copyright

[Feeble Attempt] 2023.01

When a gun was invented, some people claimed that it would never replace bows because it took almost a whole minute to load a single bullet.

When a general-purpose AI system was invented, some people claimed that it would never replace humans because it failed to answer trick questions which could be answered by more than half of the population.

Regardless of what they are capable of at this present moment in time, machines will keep getting smarter and humans will keep getting dumber. It is only a matter of time until even the most sophisticated of intellectuals will eventually succumb to the wit of artificial intelligence.

And what can we do about it? Nothing.

If you are an artist, you may attempt to overthrow the reign of AI-powered arts by claiming that those pieces of work are just concoctions of real arts that are stolen from real artists - an act of crime which must be punished by intellectual property laws.

What if, however, the next generation of AI manages to collect data directly from the nature itself (by making observations with robotic eyes) and create stunning masterpieces based off of it? Will you say that the nature itself is copyrighted by mankind, then?

The real horror of generative AI is not what it is currently capable of; rather, it is the fact that it will continue improving regardless of whether we like it or not.






:d:A note on a different way of conceptualizing psychological phenomena.
:k:Psychology, Particle, Mechanical, Spatial, Psychoanalysis, Analytical, Freudian, Jungian

[Thought Particles] 2023.01

Just as physical materials can be thought of as groups of particles that have physical energy in them, our mental processes (such as emotions, memories, and so on) can be thought of as hypothetical particles that have psychological energy in them.

Thoughts are just as tangible as the so-called "rigid bodies" in Newtonian mechanics; they simply belong to a separate domain of existence, which can be described as the realm of collective unconscious as opposed to the realm of physical phenomena.

These "thought particles", as opposed to point masses which make up our physical universe, exist inside a Platonistic space filled with pure ideas. Similar to how atoms establish bonds with one another to form molecules, our thought particles connect with each other for the purpose of formulating more complex ideas.

<003_01>






:d:A note on visualizing logic as individual geometric modules.
:k:Idea, Platonic, Relations, Logic, Relational, RDBMS, SQL, MySQL, Predicate, Computational

[Idea Space] 2023.01

What is an idea?

We live in a world which consists of two distinct domains; one belongs to the realm of physical beings (i.e. Things we can see, touch, smell, and taste), and the other one which belongs to the realm of pure, abstract ideas. An apple belongs to the domain of physics, yet the idea of an apple belongs to the domain of ideas.

Just as a universe of physical phenomena can be modeled as a physical space which consists of spatial dimensions such as X, Y, and Z, a universe of our mental conceptions can be modeled as an "idea space" in which every single point in its coordinate system can be thought of as the most indivisible, "atomic" idea our minds can ever conceive.

Such atomic ideas serve as building blocks of more complex ideas. They establish connections with one another which represent their mutual relations. For example, the algebraic expression "A=B" is a molecule that is made out of 3 atomic ideas which are indicated by symbols "A", "=", and "B", respectively. "=" has two sockets to which other atoms can bond, since it is a binary operator which requires the availability of two input values in order to produce an output value (i.e. which is either TRUE or FALSE). "A" and "B" have their own sockets as well, both referring to their respective values. The result is that the (meta)physical laws of our idea space allow these 3 atoms to bond together in a form that is reminiscent of a water molecule (H2O).

<003_05>








:d:An article on the fears and hopes of the upcoming age of general-purpose artificial intelligence.
:k:AI, Automation, 4th, Fourth, Industrial, Revolution, Monopoly, GenerativeAI, ChatGPT, OpenAI

[Surviving the Reign of AI] 2023.05

As technology progresses, more and more jobs are being taken away by machines due to the nature of automation.

This has almost always been the case ever since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, and has recently been accentuated due to the popularization of AI and machine learning in the realm of information technology.

As of the time of writing, even intellectually sophisticated activities such as fine arts, music, programming, literature, video production, and others are on the verge of being overtaken by the ingenuity of robotic minds. Their qualities are not as yet sufficiently intricate as to be able to replace the majority of highly skilled human professionals, but they do continually improve themselves and their cost-effectiveness is already great enough to undermine the necessity of hiring and training some of the entry-level practitioners.

We are living in an age of endless uncertainty, where no fixed skillset seems to endow an individual with the ability to become a unique part of one's profession by means of serving the role of an irreplaceable expert. As machines successfully take over more and more skills which used to be reserved for mankind before, an individual gets more and more frequently lost in the vast ocean of possibilities, constantly searching for random fragments of knowledge to learn and trying to adapt him/herself to the ever-changing environment. Preserving one's original identity is becoming more of a luxury, and one has no choice but relentlessly keep running on top of a treadmill which is designed to lead nowhere but barely sustain one's role as a parrot of the society's collective consciousness.

Where is individuality in today's world? As technology keeps replacing more and more portions of the pool of human intellect, where should we find a key to unlock a door which will lead us to yet another secret garden of humanity which is yet to be tainted by the tyranny of mechanization?

In order to find out a clue to this fundamental inquiry, we must first contemplate upon the meaning of individual uniqueness in our modern world as well as the problems which have been impairing it, and then try to define the most ideal future scenario to which mankind should aim to propagate itself.

First of all, let us ignore the presence of today's AI technologies for now and investigate the nature of life and society as a whole, for AI is just the tip of an iceberg compared to the overall trend which has already been exhibited by the modern world for centuries. It roughly began with the early Industrial Revolution, and proceeded to illuminate its own presence through the course of globalization.

(Background)

The reason why a person usually wants to be "unique" in one's field of expertise is that it is an indicator of a relatively high degree of competence when it comes to the irreplaceability of one's role as a member of the society. And it used to be far easier (as long as sufficient resources were given) back in the pre-industrial and pre-global era than it is today, due to a reason which I am about to illustrate below.

If you are a sandwich chef in a small village which is isolated from the rest of the world, it can be assumed that it is not so hard for you to stay as the most highly demanded creator of sandwiches in the entire community of people with whom you are interacting on a daily basis. Let's say that there are about ten thousand villagers in total, and let's suppose that they all rely on each other internally for most of their basic needs because there is hardly any direct exchange of resources between the village and the rest of the world. As long as you are the most skilled sandwich chef among these ten thousand villagers, you can assure that you are and will always be the most demanded/loved provider of sandwiches within your local community. You do not need to care if there are other sandwich experts outside of your village who are more competent than you are, since you have your own "homeground advantage" which prevents you from being replaced by those outsiders. Most villagers will rather eat your sandwiches than try to venture outside of the village just to taste other sandwiches which might taste better than yours (The amount of effort it takes to travel is likely to discourage such an endeavor).

Once your village opens itself up and gets engaged in active commerce with the external world, however, everything changes. You are no longer guaranteed to remain as a competent chef because there are probably countless others outside of your village who are better at making sandwiches than you are. Suddenly you find yourself having to compete with not only your ten thousand fellow villagers, but also with billions of strangers living all across the globe.

This is one of the side effects of globalization; you no longer possess the home advantage you used to have back in those days when people's domain of production and consumption was more or less confined to their own local area of residence due to physical limitations. Nowadays we have railroads, freeways, international trade routes, high-speed internet which is capable of selling digital products (intellectual properties) all over the world at the speed of light, and other protocols which connect all of us together more closely than ever, yet also open up the gateway to the eventual widening of the gap between the ones who succeeded in dominating the entire global market and ones who did not. Over time, what is bound to occur is the eventual death of all businesses which fail to become the absolute top performers in their fields of specialization with respect to the whole world. That is, monopoly is expected to take over.

So, what should be a solution to this? We may consider creating our own local communities which are deliberately limited in scope in terms of the way in which they exchange resources, thereby effectively generating "isolated bubbles" which operate in a manner that is similar to those of small medieval kingdoms. However, such a plan is more or less just arbitrary, as it is quite evident that the only method through which a deliberately self-isolating community can promote itself is to appeal to people who want to reinforce their egos by distancing themselves from the rest of the world, as well as to convince them that they ought to choose the particular communities that we are promoting instead of their own.

In order to resolve these tricky issues, we ought to investigate the root of the problem we are facing by means of an example. Let's imagine that you are an artist whose job is to draw concept arts for a living.

(1) Uniqueness

You are an artist who wants to be as unique as possible, since it is the way to ensure that you stay as a demanded individual in the job market. And in order to fulfill this necessity, you constantly try to endow yourself with creative endeavors, for the hope of proving to the rest of the world that you are somebody special - somebody who owns a secret cabinet of sparkling ideas which distinguish themselves from all the rest which are supposedly "boring and less creative". You hate cliché, and assume that anyone who is highly skilled in reproducing the most commercially viable piece of mainstream art are imposters hiding behind an illusion of creativity, as opposed to your "real creativity".

The problem is that, from a purely economic point of view, those who produce cliché are probably the most fitting individuals when it comes to the dynamics of supply and demand (due to the way in which the world of businesses governs itself). Yet it is also true that, if every artist aspires to seek the most optimal method of generating revenue, arts will be dominated by mediocrity.

But sure, there is the world of pure arts which distinguishes itself from the so-called "commercial arts". There are people who are determined to establish and insist upon their own non-mainstream definitions of "creativity", regardless of how the world of business views them. Most of them are hungry artists who hardly manage to make money off of their arts, but a few of them somehow succeed in promoting their own abstract values and achieving some kind of commercial success out of them (possibly with the help of famous acquaintances, bored investors, enormous marketing budget, etc). Even this abstract form of success, however, depends on its own subtle formula which is more or less cliché in terms of being optimized to appeal to a specific class of people in the most efficient way (That is, a class of people who think they are different from others and thus feel the necessity to physically differentiate themselves by buying luxury goods and labelling themselves with fancy keywords).

Therefore, whether it is even possible to become a "unique and creative" individual in today's world which comprises billions of people, the vast majority of whom are able to instantly share their products of ingenuity via a single digital marketplace by means of the internet and social media, is highly questionable.

(2) Practicality

Even if you somehow manage to become a truly unique artist, the problem of commercial viability will forever haunt you. The market does not necessarily reward all types of uniqueness; it only rewards those of specific kinds which are deemed optimal for attracting either a wide range of audiences, or at least a niche audience in a sufficiently competitive fashion (Also, you've got to make them pay). In order to satisfy all these criteria, you must sacrifice part of your uniqueness. This more or less leads to the eventual convergence of creative strategies when it comes to practical business applications.

Yet, some people may persistently exclaim that it is possible to be "creative" while also being pragmatic - perhaps not easy, but not impossible either. And yes, finding a nice little intersection between these two domains of reasoning is something worth a shot, up until the point at which one realizes that there are millions of other people who are thinking in the same exactly way.

The root of the problem lies on the fact that one is trying to do something that others are not doing. Finding such a thing is more or less an illusion in most cases (unless one has recently discovered a brand new field of intellectual endeavors), especially in saturated areas of the industry such as fine arts, music, fiction writing, and game development.

(Corollary)

So, what should be a solution to all this? Will there ever be a way out of this airtight chamber of hopelessness, despite the impression that further competition will hardly be of any use for an ambitious individual except for the purpose of barely keeping up with the status quo?

First of all, when we say that something is "unique", we are essentially saying that it is unique within the context of the whole world. Also when we say that something is "practical", what we are basically saying is that it is practical within the context of the whole world. It all depends on the context, and every qualitative aspect of things is defined in relation to a particular frame of reference rather than being absolutely evaluable on its own.

With this in mind, one can suppose that a fictional context in which a fairly small group of people implicitly agree with one another to share a set of imaginary narratives (i.e. ones which do not pertain to the society's usual "supply and demand" logic) has the potential to revive a tiny isolated community in which the members are endowed with much higher opportunities of becoming unique/useful individuals - that is, a fictional world with its own library of knowledge, its own definition of what is practical or impractical, and so forth.

Such a fictional world will work as a splitting force which draws boundaries upon the surface of our world and lets each of the resulting imaginary regions obtain the privilege to possess its own incontaminable hue. This will prevent the entire universe from plunging into a single point of convergence in terms of innovation, capital, and other characteristics of success, by diversifying the value system in subtle ways.

The problem of how to create an imaginary context, though, is another major challenge to overcome. A fully out-of-reality fiction, such as a fantasy novel, does indeed possess its own artistic value which may even manifest signs of commercial success, yet it is not likely to be taken seriously because it does not pertain to the necessities of our daily life. So what we really need in order to be able to serve the aforementioned purpose is to figure out how to invent a fictional worldview which is only partially detached from reality - that is, a set of narratives that are quite abstract and therefore differentiate themselves from what we directly experience on a daily basis, yet are not so absurd as to let ourselves instantly tell that they are part of an elaborate fiction.

One may say that this mode of reasoning can be interpreted as more or less a "religion", yet my personal persumption is that I should avoid attaching myself to such a fixed vocabulary to describe the concept because such a concise means of explanation is likely to summon a great deal of prejudice and minunderstanding.








:d:Strategies for becoming a successful politician.
:k:Politician, Social Engineering, Emotional Engineering, Social Influencer, Social Marketing
:l:2023-10-06

[How to become a politician] October 6, 2023

(How to become a politician)

1. Win the heart of your audience by constantly mentioning that they are perfect in every aspect, and that it is always "somebody else's fault" whenever a bad thing happens.

2. Do not describe any of the issues in detail. Always speak in vague words which do not mean anything in particular, yet never fail to cuddle your listeners with uplifting sensations.

3. Never let your audience know that you do not have a solid plan. Pretend that buzzwords and catchy slogans are all we need to fix complex problems which, in reality, require the intellect of one which far exceeds that of the average voter to solve.

4. Never overestimate the intelligence of your average listener. Always appeal to the lowest common denominator in order to maximize your public recognition. Remember - two idiots cast more votes than one decent thinker.

5. Repeatedly broadcast the most obvious and generic phases in front of as many people as possible. Brand yourself as an all-embracing philanthropist by presenting yourself as the most agreeable person.







:d:About the meaning of life.
:k:Life, Meaning, Purpose, Personal Development, Self Help, Philosophy
:l:2024-05-04

[Search for Meaning] May 4, 2024

"What is the meaning of life?"

This is probably one of the most fundamental questions pertaining to the well-being of mankind. And many of us frequently ask it to ourselves, either consciously or subconsciously, for the sake of avoiding the eternal hellhole of existential crisis.

Yet, finding an answer to such a question requires us to clarify the implication of the word "meaning" in the first place. What does "meaning" really mean, anyways? There could be a wide spectrum of interpretations for sure, but the most obvious one is to regard the word "meaning" as a synonym of "purpose" in the context of biology.

We, as living things, constantly strive to survive and reproduce because it is what biological entities are predisposed to do. This is instinctual, and conscious effort is needed to suppress such a tendency. Since it is the apparent reality of things around us, it is by no means absurd to claim that the meaning of life is to survive and reproduce, and nothing more.

This, of course, feels a bit too shallow and incomplete. As long as we are intellectually flexible enough to let some philosophy dwell in our faculty of metaphysical delight, we retain our desire to muse upon the meaning of not just our biological bodies, but also the universe as a whole. Such an idea, however, does not provide us with a clear guideline for our thought process because it is mostly hypothetical.

The meaning of the world around us, in its entirety, is a rather vague concept to grasp because the very definition of the word "meaning" does not reside in such an abstract context. When people say that something is "meaningful", they typically mean that it is likely to bring some personal advantage to themselves, such as more money, improved health, better relationship, and the like. They might insist that it is supposed to benefit the whole of humanity and not just themselves, yet this is just the same secular notion being applied to a wider scale (i.e. Beneficial to a large number of people instead of just a few). If we are to discuss the meaning of the universe as a whole, outside of even the scope of humanity itself, it is necessary to admit that such a construct is more of a word play than something inducible from our experience.

If we wish to identify the meaning of life from a pragmatic standpoint, therefore, we must avoid groundless speculations and simply begin by investigating what we are supposed to be doing as biological entities. Only after we succeed in making sense of this, we will be able to expand our domain of reason further and manage to define the word "meaning" in a broader context.

The most primary goal we all share as human beings is to survive. As far as our practical definition of causality goes, all other goals are subsidiary to this root goal. For example, we search for food because the act of eating increases our chance of survival, and we seek shelter because the act of staying in a secure area increases our chance of survival. "Search for food" and "Seek shelter" are both goals, yet they are nothing more than subgoals which are aimed to serve their parent goal (i.e. "Survive").

Let us just suppose for now that our purpose is to live as happily as possible. This makes sense, doesn't it? We all want to be happy, and do not want to be miserable. We all want to survive, live, and prosper. This presupposition of value is unquestionable, as long as we do not venture to hypothesize with the very meaning of our existence itself.

The real problem arises, though, when we try to find out a rather specific way to achieve such a goal. There are countless alternative choices of action which may or may not work, depending on who we are. And since every one of us is a unique individual, a method which works for some of us may not work for others. We all have our own ways of living a happy life because we have different talents, preferences, personalities, physical traits, living standards, etc.

So, how to figure out the best way to live? This is probably the most baffling question you can ever ask to yourself, since you are the only one who can figure it out. You are the one who knows about you thoroughly, and thus nobody but yourself can come up with an accurate answer. And its main difficulty lies on the fact that you alone is the only subject you can observe and analyze when it comes to drawing an empirically sound conclusion.

This is indeed frustrating. If you do not know what to do with your life, you won't be able to motivate yourself to do anything in particular. And as long as this state of uncertainty continues, you will always be anxious and depressed.

Fortunately, there is a way to cure at least a significant portion of this problem. Although every one of us is a unique soul and thus requires a unique approach to life, we all share a set of traits which are common to all human beings.

For example, we all know that eating healthy meals, exercising daily, preferring love over hatred, being honest, and being diligent are good for us. These habits are so universally applicable, that one does not even need to question their effectiveness. The key lies on noticing these "common disciplines" and integrating them into your daily routine.

Take the habit of exercise, for instance. No matter what your profession is and what your personal predilections are, it is almost absolutely certain that doing SOME workout on a regular basis will benefit you in some way or another (unless you are suffering from a rare genetic disease, such as one which makes your muscles emit toxic chemicals whenever you use them). This means that, even if you are totally unsure of what you should be doing with your life, you can still be sure of the fact that you should be working out in order to stay fit. The benefit of this habit will not diminish no matter what path your life will happen to follow in the future.

This is the main takeaway of the analysis made so far. If you don't know what to do, at least do something that is worth doing regardless of your future choices. This behavioral guideline will give you a safety net to which you can always fall back whenever circumstances prevent you from making detailed decisions.

Here is the rule of thumb. Focus on doing something which you can manage to do on a regular basis without relying on external factors (e.g. your wealth, your job, place you live, relationships, etc). This will provide you with a "baseline layer of sanity" upon which you can keep moving forward with your life without having to constantly worry about the meaning of what you are doing. This will be the fountain of purpose from which you can drink an endless stream of hope.







:d:A poem about influencers and celebrities.
:k:Influencer, Celebrity, Internet, Social Network, Social Media
:l:2024-06-15

[The Celebrity] June 15, 2024

Look at this man of street wisdom,
He is the brightest star on Earth.

He steps out of every dirty matter,
And prides in his innocent smile.
He mirrors what everyone wants to see.

He preaches indolence with easy words,
And receives a shower of praise.
He echoes what everyone wants to hear.

Look at this man of plastic sugar,
He is everyone's friend.






:d:A poem about the narratives of our contemporary world.
:k:Narratives, Modern World, Mainstream Media, Hero Journey, Archetype, Fairy Tale
:l:2024-06-24

[A Modern Hero's Journey] June 24, 2024

An average dragon kidnapped an average princess,
And took her to an average castle made of average diamond.

An average knight came to save an average princess,
With an average sword made by an average sorcerer.

An average knight slayed an average dragon,
And devoured an average chest hidden in an average room.

An average curtain came down an average stage,
And an average audience said that it was good.






:d:About the vanity of the modern world.
:k:Meaning, Innovation, Creativity, Mysticism, Self Help, Personal Development, Spiritualism, Spirituality, Academia, Narrative, Vision, Business Practice, Business Protocol, Truth
:l:2024-07-21

[Everything is in Vain!] July 21, 2024

Everything is in vain!

Self-help gurus are in vain. They win the heart of the crowd with easy, happy words. They make everybody feel like a genius by perpetually repeating the most obvious and generic catchphrases. They cuddle everyone's heart with the cheapest, sugarcoated hope.

Mystics are in vain. They act as though they are the keepers of the most profound secrets of the universe, yet they never explain anything clearly. They openly despise rationality, and celebrate obscurity. Their world is full of auras, spirits, crystal energy, hidden dimensions, and supernatural forces. They never fail to obfuscate everything with a toybox of vague terms. They make profit from fools who worship ambiguity.

Academics are in vain. They rejoice in the word play of their intellectual masturbation, and endorse each other with empty words backed up by the circular loop of their contrived language. They live in their own ivory tower of groundless speculations.

Industry professionals are in vain. The momentum of their work is held upon the pillars of inner politics, mannerisms, and nitpicky technical details which are solely hinged upon their own irreversibly intertwined fabric of rules. Their wisdom is a mere muscle memory of their own bigoted protocol.

Innovators are in vain. They say that they are the creatives, yet their vision is a mere assortment of catchy business slogans. They accuse you of being narrow-sighted unless you, like a parrot, copy the exact set of buzzwords they have in their minds. They nitpick every single word you say in their obnoxiously literal way of interpretation, and distort your faculty of reason under the mold of their shallow narrative.

Revolutionaries are in vain. They pledge to "break the norm". They promise to "change the world" by overthrowing the bigotry of the smug elites. When they themselves finally receive the throne of fame and authority, however, they too become complacent in their own ivory tower of pride. They only cared about their ego all along.

Everything is in vain, except one's thirst for truth that is separate from personal success. Only in one's ability to find joy in things which shall last beyond one's lifetime, there will be true dignity.