:d:An article about universal laws of game design.
:k:Game, Videogame, Motivation, Demotivation, Atomic, Atomism, Physics, Psychology

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 10] 2023.04

(Continued from Volume 9)

When we think about the nature of the word "game", we often come to the conclusion that a game is a network of goals and their respective actions. The player (or any equivalent gameplay agent) recognizes a list of goals to pursue, and endeavors to complete these goals by carrying out a list of actions.

Actions do not come for free, however, since it is obvious that the absence of cost would enable the player to achieve goals without even the slightest allusion of difficulty, which is clearly an undesirable trait for an interactive medium such as a game. Therefore, actions which are part of the process of fulfilling one's in-game goals should involve exchanges of entities that are limited in quantity.

In the previous volume, we saw the possibility of modeling the concept of exchange in terms of potentials and their respective energy particles. Energy descends the stream of potentials from high to low energy levels, as suggested by the laws of nature we are capable of witnessing every day. And as long as we suppose that an active gameplay agent (e.g. player) is able to temporarily add a set of new potentials to the system for the purpose of transferring a set of energy atoms in a certain way for a brief moment, it must be logically sound for us to imagine that the agent triggers an action by applying a specific set of potentials, waiting for a moment to let the energy atoms rebind themselves, and then destroying the applied potentials. Such an act of application can be referred to as "motivation", and the act of the subsequent destruction can be referred to as "demotivation", for it is sensible to consider a voluntary action as an event which requires the presence of a motive.

<005_01>

A process of motivation and its subsequent cancellation (i.e. demotivation), which represents the start and end of an agent-driven action, signifies a momentary jump of energy from one spot to the other in a highly discrete manner (like a single drop of water which falls from a briefly lifted tap), as opposed to a continuous flow of energy which occurs through a long descending series of persistent potentials.

Such a discrete instance of energy transfer is a component of an exchange, since a singular exchange is defined in terms of quantitative changes that are impulsive rather than continuous. And since any specific in-game action (e.g. "Collect this gem", "Kill this enemy", etc) can ultimately be broken down to a sequence of atomic movements and each of them is a constituent of an energy transfer (as long as we suppose that every atom is some kind of energy particle), we can say that any in-game action is made out of exchanges.

<005_02>

We have seen that a momentary energy transfer is realized by a process of motivation and demotivation, which respectively correspond to the addition and removal of a specific set of potentials. It seems convenient, therefore, to fancy that such a set of potentials and the way in which they get added, as a whole, constitute the definition of the term "motive"; that is, an agent triggers an energy transfer by adding a motive, and terminates it by removing the motive that was added.

<005_03>

And depending on the type of energy transfer, there could be different types of motives each of which has its own unique molecular structure. It is not so rash to imagine that one can conceive a wide spectrum of chemical laws out of this.

But before delving directly into this vast pond of possibilities, let us go back to the initial line of reasoning which gave birth to the idea of energies, potentials, and their respective laws of interaction. Initially, it all began with the problem of identifying atoms that are resources as opposed to atoms that are obstacles. And based on the definition that a resource is something which is capable of giving energy to the observer and an obstacle is something which is capable of taking energy away from the observer, I have suggested the existence of special atoms called "potentials" as well as energy particles which automatically ride upon and traverse them from higher levels to lower levels, as means of fully explaining the causal origin of resources and obstacles.

From the laws of nature and their quantitative patterns we have sensed so far, one can fairly easily imagine that an atom could either be identified as a resource or an obstacle depending on the type and level of a potential it happens to possess.

<005_04>

Let us suppose that the observer has two potentials (of type "X" and "kinetic") and their corresponding energy particles. The idea is, the observer is interested in gaining new X energy atoms by spending its own kinetic energy atoms; so any event which involves the incoming of X energy and outcoming of kinetic energy is a desirable form of exchange for the observer.

As long as the aforementioned supposition holds, we can safely assume that any atom which is close enough to the observer and is carrying a potential of type X may be able to let the observer issue an exchange which aligns with such an interest, depending on the potential's relative energy level. Triggering an exchange which involves a transfer of X energy between such an atom and the observer, from the observer's side of actions, can be carried out by means of motivation - that is, by adding a temporary X potential between the two participants of the exchange, which works as a bridge that connects the two roads of transportation (because an energy atom cannot jump across potentials that are separated by distances greater than 1).

<005_05>

Since we do not want the player to be able to create a perpetual motion machine from which one can extract infinite energy, it must be the case that every observer-issued energy transfer requires some form of cost on the observer's side (aka "transaction fee"). Therefore, it is reasonable to expect that any process of motivation must simultaneously add a kinetic sink which drains one of the kinetic energy particles of the observer whenever it adds a potential that has at least a bit of possibility of bringing extra energy of another type into the observer's body.

And the difference between the energy level of the observer's X potential and that of the neighboring atom's X potential, by nature of the directionality of energy transfer (i.e. which always points from high to low level), can be said to either bear the possibility of donating X energy to the observer or stealing X energy from the observer upon exchange, depending on whether its value is positive or negative.

For example, let us say that the observer's X potential has level "n" and that the other atom's X potential has level "n+1". In this case, the observer is able to create a continuous ramp of X potentials that is tilted inwards by adding an X potential between itself and the other atom with a level that is the average value between "n" and "n+1" (i.e. "n+0.5"). Such a creation, of course, comes with a bit of kinetic energy cost.

<005_06>

If the other atom's X potential contains an X energy particle, then, it will automatically flow into the observer's X potential during the span of 2 discrete time steps (First step transfers the particle from the other atom's X potential to the local space's X potential, and the second step transfers the particle from the local space's X potential to the observer's X potential). If the other atom's X potential does not contain an X energy particle, on the other hand, such a flow will fail to occur.

<005_07>

The thing is, though, that the other atom can still be considered as having some probability of giving off X energy particles to the observer as long as its own possession of X energy particles is either not known by the observer or simply undefined. This enables us to identify the atom as a "resource" solely based upon the characteristics of its X potential and not its inner content.

The aforementioned interaction, which is basically an exchange between an X energy particle and a kinetic energy particle from the observer's perspective, can be illustrated in the form of a diagram shown below. X energy enters the "inside" of the agent's body, and kinetic energy gets released to the "outside" of the agent's body in a strictly simultaneous fashion.

<005_08>

What if the other atom's X potential has level "n-1", a value that is less than "n"? In this opposite scenario, what we are expected to witness is that there will be no direct way of establishing a bridge between the observer and the other atom in a way in which the other atom's X energy particle can manage to travel towards the observer on its own (since an energy atom does not voluntarily climb up a staircase of energy levels).

<005_09>

Instead, any presence of a bridge will induce the observer's X energy particle (if there is any) to move towards the other atom due to the fact that the ramp of energy levels is, in this case, inclined towards the other atom instead of the observer. This makes the other atom qualify as an "obstacle"; it has a tendency to steal energy from the observer as soon as the right condition (i.e. bridge) is given.

<005_10>

This opposite kind of interaction, too, can be classified as an exchange, although its outcome may be deemed far unfairer than that of an interaction with a resource. An exchange with an obstacle almost always involves far more loss in energy than gain (if there is any gain at all), and therefore one might question the legitimacy of the above scenario by saying, "Wait, why on earth would the observer ever want to lay a bridge between itself and an obstacle, if it cannot be expected to bring any benefit at all?"

<005_11>

And such a point of reasoning is indeed valid, except that there are many other probable causes which may trigger the same exact sort of exchange as the one depicted above. For instance, the obstacle itself could be an active agent which, upon arrival of the observer, recognizes it as a resource (because n is greater than n-1) and thus puts an "n-0.5" under the shared local space in order to extract energy from the observer. Also, the observer itself may be having a status condition which automatically induces it to lose X energy by laying a bridge to whichever obstacle it encounters (thermal dissipation could be an example of this).

There may as well be cases where the observer's local space itself possesses a potential by default. In such a case, one may say that it is the spatial region itself which can be identified as either a resource or an obstacle, depending on whether its potential's energy level is greater than or less than that of the observer's. If a space is either a resource or an obstacle, it is not hard for us to imagine that an energy transfer between itself and the observer will occur automatically (without even having to add a motive) as soon as the observer enters the space. This is because the distance between an atom and its binding target is only 1, which is a sufficiently small distance for an energy particle to jump between its potential and the other's potential.

<005_12>

Things are not always black and white, however. There could be a condition in which the observer's local space is being shared by both a resource and an obstacle, or there could be a condition in which the local space itself exhibits both the behavior of a resource and the behavior of an obstacle by containing potentials of both kinds. Such ambivalent circumstances fit the conventional definition of the word "exchange"; an agent may choose to be involved in an exchange not necessarily because it is bound to result in either strict gain or strict loss, but rather because it allows the agent to sacrifice one type of energy for the acquirement of another.

<005_13>

The purpose of the theoretical formulation which I have been undertaking so far is to prove that it is possible to come up with dynamic patterns of motivation (hence their underlying narratives) without having to devise a long list of arbitrary rules. Agents which comprise the gameplay universe, whether they be physical or abstract, can be expressed in terms of atoms, and their energy level differences give them reasons to motivate themselves to modify the arrangement of potentials for the purpose of gaining desired energy particles while getting rid of those that are unnecessary.

It is time for us, however, to go back to the initial example of the complexity of psychological phenomena which seemed to prevent the designer from quantitatively modeling an agent's volitional tendencies. The wizard I mentioned in volume 8, who possesses a mysterious desire to convert everything into a donut, initially gave an impression that the origin of his motivation is only explicable through the context of a lore - that is, a rich background story which illustrates the reason why he is so obsessed with donuts in particular.

To be honest, I do concede that it is not quite feasible to fully explain the ultimate causal root of the wizard's strange attachment to donuts solely by means of pure mathematical definitions (It might eventually turn out be possible, yet approaching such an objective seems to be too daunting a task for now). However, it should also be noted that at least the underlying motive of the wizard's donut-summoning behavior itself can be abstracted out into an indivisible entity (i.e. an "atomic idea"), which can then fit into the mechanical inner workings of the system as a discrete building block.

Let us suppose that this donut-loving wizard is an atom which possesses a special kind of energy called "magic energy". He stores his own magic energy (aka "mana") inside his supernatural battery called "magic potential", and whenever he casts a spell, this battery discharges a bit and consumes 1 magic energy particle. Let us also imagine that this wizard is currently standing right in front of an atom that is not a donut (aka "non-donut"), and that he desperately wants to transform this atom into a donut. How shall we explain the nature of motivation involved in here, as well as its subsequent result?

<005_14>

Unlike the previous example which demonstrated the problem of identifying resources and obstacles, this one is a bit tricky because it apparently involves a conversion of one type of atom to another. Since potentials and their resultant paths of energy flow only explain the nature of motion and not the internal chemistry of atoms themselves, one might be tempted to say that the only way to model a process of transformation is to represent both a donut and a non-donut as a molecular structure that is made up of multiple atoms, whose internal rearrangement allows the whole structure to be renamed from "non-donut" to "donut", or vice versa. However, there is a simpler way.

<005_15>

In volume 2, I mentioned that any object which "exists" can be thought of as being contained inside a real space, whereas any object which "does not exist" can be thought of as being contained inside an imaginary space. Based upon this hypothetical pair of definitions, I claimed that the process of creating an object is an equivalent of moving it from imaginary space to real space, and that the process of destroying an object is an equivalent of moving it from real space to imaginary space.

Since the process of converting a non-donut to a donut is the same thing as destroying a non-donut and creating a donut at the same time, we can say that the wizard is capable of transforming a non-donut into a donut as long as he is capable of simultaneously moving a non-donut from real space to imaginary space while moving a donut from imaginary space to real space. This will be possible if the wizard's current position in space not only belongs to a real space, but also to an imaginary space within which both a non-donut potential and a donut potential coexist in parallel. In a way, we may call the wizard a "semi-mythical" being due to the fact that he is situated within the area of intersection between the real and imaginary parts of the universe. And based upon this notion, one may fancy that many of the paranormal activities, such as shape-shifting, are directed by agents who reside in the zone of limbo between the borderline of reality and the borderline of imagination.

<005_16>

With the application of an appropriate motive, then, the wizard is able to convert any nearby non-donut into a donut by means of inducing both the non-donut and an imaginary donut to fall down through their own streams of descending potentials. The precise mechanic of this motivational procedure, which may as well be identified as a spell-casting activity, is illustrated above.

At this point, one might ask, "Where does the motive itself come from? Surely it cannot just pop out of nowhere without any apparent physical cause." My answer would be that the atoms which constitute the motive themselves are motivational energy particles which follow their own downward paths of "motivational potentials". Such potentials are part of the wizard's (i.e. motive-creator's) inner mind and thus are completely invisible from a physical standpoint. And any change in one's motives is caused by changes in the shapes of such downward paths, which are themselves results of motivations that are applied from the external environment. In other words, motives which naturally occur from the physical surroundings continuously modify the arrangement of potentials within the observer's mind, and motives which occur from the observer's mind continuously modify the arrangement of potentials within the physical surroundings. This is a perpetual back-and-forth cycle of motivation which happens between the inside and outside of the observer's existential boundary.

In the next volume, we will see how the model developed so far applies to a variety of in-game activities, as well as how it promises to simplify down the overall design process.

(Will be continued in Volume 11)









:d:An article about videogame design and its universal patterns.
:k:Game, Videogame, Design, Computational, Biology, Evolution, Simulation, Modelling

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 11] 2023.04

(Continued from Volume 10)

So far, quite a number of concepts have been proposed for the purpose of building an abstract yet universal model of gameplay. Starting from volume 1, I have suggested the possibility of breaking down the goals of any active gameplay agent into 3 major categories - Absorb, Expand, and Secure. And by means of subsequent theoretical development, I have reached the conclusion that these three fundamental goals can be defined in terms of the agent's spatial distances (i.e. costs of traversal) from the 3 distinct classes of atoms that are called "resources", "influences", and "obstacles", respectively.

Suppose that the player (aka "myself") is the only active agent of our interest inside the game world (as it is typically the case in most single-player games). In this case, there is only one focal point of observation throughout the whole course of the game's narrative. The entire universe revolves around the player and always puts him/her at the center of the scope of observation, and the narrative space itself can be summarized as the ensemble of the player and his/her relationships with other entities of the universe.

However, the player is not necessarily interested in all types of entities; the kind of entities which are taken into consideration by the player are ones which belong to at least one of the three categories that are commonly referred to as "resources", "influences", and "obstacles", due to the reason that they are directly related to the main character's ultimate purpose in life.

<005_17>

Simply speaking (with a bit of generalization), one may say that the ultimate purpose of any living thing is to increase the size of its "region of influence" as much as possible, which can be done by creating offspring, being present in many places, or by employing any other means of influencing the present set of events whose causal chain reactions may ripple through the tree of future events, in a manner which fits the organism's belief system. And in volume 8, the reinterpretation of the very notion of the concept called "space" allowed us to claim that the desire to maximize the area of one's region of influence can at least be roughly translated into the desire to maximize the total number of one's influence atoms. And we also witnessed the subsequent conclusion that, as long as each position in space has a limited capacity of influence atoms, a creator who constantly strives to generate such influences should endeavor to maximize its average distance from itself and its already made influence atoms (in order to "spread them out" as much as possible).

<005_18>

The problem of increasing or decreasing one's distance from other atoms of a certain class, however, more or less strictly belongs to the mechanical aspects of the game; that is, one's desire to increase or decrease a scalar quantity called "distance" is more of a specific instruction that tells the agent which particular actions ought to be taken in order to achieve a goal, rather than something that is an intrinsic part of the goal itself.

So when trying to design the semantic core of the game's narratives, we need to temporarily forget the distance-based formulation of the agent's three fundamental goals and simply focus on their psychological origins.

The "Expand" goal, for example, can be described as one's desire to increment the total number of influences. Somebody might ask, "What exactly are influences, anyways?". The answer is, it differs from character to character. If there is a wizard who believes that the only purpose in his life is to turn everything into a donut, we may say that any atom which can be classified as a donut should be considered one of his influences. This makes sense because any abundance of donuts, in this context, would signify the success of the wizard in terms of influencing the world in his own desired way.

The "Absorb" goal can be described as one's desire to be in touch with as many resources as possible, where each resource is basically an atom that is capable of donating certain types of energy particles which induce the agent to increase its total number of influences. For instance, any atom which is able to grant magic energy to the wizard (such as a mana battery) must be identified as a resource, since more availability of magic energy particles means more chances for the wizard to convert a non-donut into a donut. Any atom which creates brand new donuts whenever it is in contact with the wizard, too, must be considered a resource because it donates "donut energy particles" (aka "donuts") into the wizard's domain of existence, and because the presence of each donut energy particle helps the wizard maintain his total number of influences to be 1 higher than it would have been otherwise). An atom which automatically generates donuts without requiring the wizard's involvement does not count as a resource because such a behavior matches the expected behavior of the wizard and therefore qualifies the atom as an extension of the wizard himself.

The "Secure" goal, on the other hand, can be described as one's desire to avoid being in contact with obstacles, where each obstacle is basically an atom that is capable of stealing energy in a way in which it interferes with the process of maximizing the agent's number of influences. For instance, any atom which is able to take magic energy away from the wizard (such as an instance of the "expelliarmus" spell in Harry Potter) must be identified as an obstacle, since less availability of magic energy particles means fewer chances for the wizard to convert a non-donut into a donut. Any atom which destroys donuts, too, must be considered an obstacle because it steals "donut energy particles" (aka "donuts") from the wizard's domain of existence and sends them to imaginary space, therby reducing the wizard's total number of influences.

<005_19>

To summarize, I would say that the narrative characteristic of each active gameplay agent can be specified in terms of:

(1) The types of the agent's influences,
(2) The types of atoms which donate energy in ways in which they help preserve/increase the number of influences (aka "resources"), and
(3) The types of atoms which steal energy in ways in which they hinder the process of preserving/increasing the number of influences (aka "obstacles").

In the case of the wizard who is weirdly obsessed with donuts, we can say that:

(1) Any donut counts as one of the wizard's influences because his ultimate purpose is to increment the number of donuts as much as possible,
(2) Any atom which is capable of donating magic energy to the wizard, or is capable of creating a donut when in contact with the wizard, counts as one of the wizard's resources, and
(3) Any atom which is capable of stealing magic energy from the wizard, or is capable of destroying a donut, counts as one of the wizard's obstacles, and
(4) Any atom which has a tendency of creating donuts on its own is part of the wizard himself (That is, either his own body or his offspring).

<005_20>

The next question is, what would be the underlying mathematical pattern on top of which we are bound to decide exactly what types of atoms qualify as influences, benefactors of influences, and malefactors of influences?

In my view, the key to answering this question solely depends on the problem of figuring out which types of atoms qualify as one's influences. The reason behind this is that, once we know which atoms are supposed to be the observer's influences, we can easily derive the identities of atoms which pertain to the definition of resources and obstacles (i.e. those that either enhance or attenuate the process of keeping/incrementing the total number of influences) based upon the game's mechanical structure. The act of summoning a donut comes with the expenditure of one magic energy particle not because the wizard's profound belief system enforces them to be related in such a way, but because such a relationship is just an inherent law of causality embedded in the physical reality of the gameplay universe. It is the same idea as that a steam engine converts thermal energy to kinetic energy simply due to the fact that these two types of energy are mechanically related in such a way under specific circumstances, not necessarily because there are angels and spirits who believe that their purpose of existence is to turn heat into motion wherever there is a steam engine.

And from our daily observations, we can easily infer that every living thing possesses its own definition of which atoms are its influences and which atoms are not. Such a definition is the heart of one's belief system - a fountain of narratives from which all sorts of motivations sprout and flourish.

Let us imagine that there is a sexually active man who believes that the purpose of his life is to have as many children as possible. Inside his worldview, his own children are his influence atoms and anything which contributes to the creation of his children is a resource (And of course, anything which has the opposite effect is an obstacle). This means that his current wife, potential future wives, prospective recipients of his sperm donation, and Viagra pills are all his resources because all of them provide him with "impregnation-chance energy particles" which, when consumed via exchanges, transfer his children (i.e. influences) from imaginary space to real space, thereby incrementing the total number of his influences.

<005_21>

The exact set of atomic interactions involved during the full process of attraction, intercourse, impregnation, and birth, are not so simple to design as to be demonstrable right away, yet one can easily guess that they can be built out of analogous representations of our physical reality, parts of which have the freedom to be more or less fictional to a fair extent. One may say that representing abstract concepts (e.g. chance of reproduction, fertility, sexual selection, etc) as atoms and their pseudo-chemical interactions over-simplifies things a bit too much, yet we know that this is a kind of generalization we ought to pursue in order to reason with abstract concepts in an efficient manner.

Here is a quick example to back up the statement above. A game character's overall physiological fitness is often being represented as a single health bar, since a game is a work of fiction which has the right to employ any means of unrealistic simplification for the sake of convenience. Likewise, various motivational factors and their ensuing patterns should have everyone's permission to be modeled in a manner which fits our design intentions rather than the so-called "objective reality". We may say that an intercourse is an exchange between one impregnation-chance energy particle and one birth-chance energy particle (Or, in the context of accounting and finance, a transaction which involves a unit loss of impregnation-debt and a unit gain of birth-credit), which is more or less just a fictional model of the full process of procreation but still successfully renders the end result in a satisfying manner. The intermediary processes can be ignored during the game's early prototyping stage, since such details can be filled out later on in a fairly modular fashion.

<005_22>

Here is another example of what determines the identity of one's influence. Let us imagine that there is a highly scholastic man who believes that the only purpose of his life is to make as many scientific discoveries as possible (which qualifies them as his influences). And due to this strong belief which prioritizes his academic career over any other activities, this man is never willing to start a family and have kids.

This is a somewhat trickier scenario because a "scientific discovery" is not nearly as straightforward to define as one's descendant. A child is a biological organism (i.e. an object) which has its own mass and other tangible features, and therefore it makes sense to be represented as an atom (just like a rigid body can be represented as a point mass in physics). A discovery, on the other hand, may refer to either a piece of information or a methodology for accessing a piece of information, which is not really a physically locatable unit of existence and is therefore more or less "distributed" throughout the causal web of space and time.

Again, however, we should remind ourselves that the thing we are trying to design is a game which does not need to portray our physical reality with pinpoint accuracy; it is a fictional universe in which it is okay to represent non-spatial entities as spatial entities and vice versa.

Let us put all sorts of epistemological complexities aside as though they do not exist, and simply assume that any scientific discovery is just a single atom which simultaneously belongs to every place in which it is being conceived. If three people who are respectively named A, B, and C, are the only ones who are aware of a scientific discovery called X, for instance, one could illustrate X as an atom that is bound to A, B, and C. Such a mode of simultaneous bindings indicates a spatial intersection that is being shared by 3 different regions within the space of collective consciousness.

<005_23>

If this scholastic man does not seek fame (public recognition) at all, the number of such bindings which are associated with each scientific discovery won't matter that much to him. The only metric of personal success within the worldview of this dedicated scholar will be the total number of scientific discoveries which were created by himself. This means that, as long as the aforementioned condition holds, any atom which can be identified as a "scientific discovery" automatically qualifies as an influence of this man.

And since a variety of different scientific discoveries can be made only in distinct circumstances which are spatially separate from one another (e.g. a laboratory, a volcanic site, a top of a mountain, a space probe, a telescope, a microscope, an archaeological site, and so on), one could fancy that there are a multitude of imaginary-to-real energy transfer pathways existing within physical sources of scientific discovery. In each one of them, the scholar should be able to conjure a new scientific discovery (i.e. his influence) by means of intellectual motivation, thereby increasing the total number of his influences.

<005_24>

If this man were more of a fame-seeking person than a pure explorer of truth, on the other hand, we would need to interpret things a bit differently. Unlike in the previous case in which the man measured his degree of success in terms of the total number of scientific discoveries that were made by himself, this fame-seeking scholar must be measuring his degree of success in terms of the total number of recognizers whose origins of recognition can be attributed to his own scientific discoveries.

<005_25>

The problem of identifying resources and obstacles depends on what is the primary goal of the scholar. If his focus is to make as many discoveries as possible, one must say that any atom which directly boosts this man's ability to create a new discovery (e.g. a source of intellectual energy, a site of scientific observation, etc) can be defined as a resource and any atom which has the opposite effect can be defined as an obstacle. If the man's focus is to become a famous figure in the field of science, on the other hand, one must say that any atom which directly boosts this man's ability to make people remember his own discoveries (e.g. a person who is willing to learn about his discoveries, a book publisher that is willing to publish a paper on his discoveries, etc) can be defined as a resource and any atom which has the opposite effect can be defined as an obstacle.

<005_26>

This kind of abstract reasoning can go on and on forever, expressing abstract entities in the form of atoms and their transactional relations. Happiness, sadness, anger, fear, jealousy, fondness, empathy, and myriads of other types of emotions, too, can be used to represent somebody's influence atoms which may come into existence under the execution of emotional energy exchanges (aka "emotional transactions").

Since our imaginative freedom does not prevent ourselves from making up abstract playgrounds of meaning upon which every gameplay agent possesses its own definition of resources, influences, and obstacles (as was demonstrated so far by means of multiple examples), and since these 3 classes of atoms directly correspond to the 3 most fundamental goals of every animate object (i.e. Absorb, Expand, and Secure) each of which has its own precise list of mechanical instructions that can easily be translated into computational procedures (See volume 2), it is reasonable for us to conclude that the whole behavioral spectrum of any agent within the game is reducible to a set of mathematical formulas as long as we manage to specify the means of identifying resources, influences, and obstacles of every agent. And we know that, if a conceptual model can be represented mathematically, it will be not so difficult for us to reduce its nature down to the most minimal set of metrics (e.g. distances and energy levels) while also being able to quantitatively expand its scope in an unbounded manner.

Let's go back to the example of the sexually over-active man. A man whose purpose in life is to make as many children as possible will identify his children as his influences, fertilizable women as his resources, and rivals who interfere with his child-making process (such as other men of his age) as his obstacles. The implication of this is that such a man is expected to:

(1) Decrease the average distance of his own body from fertilizable women by approaching them and laying down intermediary energy-transfer bridges between himself and those women as much as possible (This corresponds to the execution of the "Absorb" goal),
(2) Increase the average distance of his own body from his own children by avoiding them as much as possible, since their moms will take care of them anyways and his foremost goal is to increment the total number of children instead of ensuring their overall well-being (This corresponds to the execution of the "Expand" goal), and
(3) Increase the average distance of his own body from other men (sexual competitors) by either avoiding them or kicking them out to other places that are as far away as possible, among which the heaven could have been a strong candidate if the law did not prohibit it (This corresponds to the execution of the "Secure" goal).

<005_27>

In real life, of course, a man is not that extreme in his behaviors. A man, while he may subconsciously possess a strong tendency to seek every chance of reproduction, usually spends some time taking care of his wife (wives) and kids, doing some laundry, washing dishes, working for a job, and so on, unless he is a primeval super-alpha male with a somehow short-circuited brain.

So for a more realistic model of a gameplay agent, we will need to come up with multiple definitions of influences, multiple definitions of resources, and multiple definitions of obstacles depending on a set of values that are originated from not only sexual instincts, but also other volitional factors which are moral, aesthetic, sympathetic, and philanthropic in nature. Such a multitude of beliefs can be translated into a multitude of parallel goals which compete with each other in real time, and the problem of sorting out their relative degrees of prioritization is a separate issue that is yet to be settled down.

However, in the context of game development we do not necessarily have to aim for realism, and therefore are not required to keep multiplying the complexity of one's goal structure beyond our control. After all, an enemy character usually only cares about attacking the player and hardly anything else. In more volitionally complex games (such as The Sims) we can clearly perceive agents with multiple sources of motivation that are in competition with one another (such as Hunger, Bladder, Energy, Hygiene, etc), yet their number is fairly limited and all of them are handled by a set of strictly quantitative laws, which keep them pretty manageable in terms of design and implementation.

(Will be continued in Volume 12)








:d:An article about videogame design and its universal patterns.
:k:Game, Development, Data, Aesthetics, Empirical, Developers, Play

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 12] 2023.04

(Continued from Volume 11)

When it comes to the matter of conceptual essence, the study of game design is not so different from other branches of knowledge in the sense that it involves a vast network of scientific inquiries. A game is a chain of back-and-forth causal interactions between a fictional system and its end user (aka "player"), and is therefore hardly less subject to rigorous academic investigations compared to most other areas of study. It is a multidisciplinary body of research which draws its sources of inspiration from psychology, cognitive science, ethics, aesthetics, and other clusters of theoretical ideas which can altogether be referred to as "philosophy".

It raises a sense of perplexity, therefore, to be witnessing a seemingly counterintuitive sort of phenomenon which has been chronically present in our mainstream game development community. Those who are keen to discern the apparent normal distribution of the population's spectrum of social behaviors should have already realized that anyone whose behavioral sample point is confined within approximately 2 standard deviations of that of the average game developer tends to exhibit a surprisingly fragmented sort of mannerism when it comes to their area of expertise, in the sense that one possesses a strangely brute and uniform tendency to claim that the act of collecting and iterating empirical data alone will suffice to yield pathways to long-term innovations in the game industry.

A piece of empirical data is nothing more than a bunch of numerical gibberish unless we have a way of interpreting it. In order to extract meaning out of it, therefore, it is expected of a true scientific investigator to conceive a set of hypotheses and make sense of the collected data based upon them, instead of simply collecting a bunch of random data first and then expecting to find meaning in it. And since hypotheses originate from theories rather than an endless sequence of buzzwords and motivational slogans such as "Just make a game first! Practice makes it perfect!", it should be noted that the expected behavior of a decent individual who is capable of building something that is somehow distinguishable from a mere reiteration of somebody else's work is to acknowledge the value of establishing a fine balance between both empirical and theoretical faculties of mind, as well as that the way to ensure that they both release their utmost potentials is to utilize them together in a synergetic manner.

<005_28>

A prominent reason why the usage of such a scientific methodology is more crucial than ever nowadays is that we are living in an age where simply making a game that is "fun to play" usually does not suffice to let ourselves have a high chance of considerable monetization in the game industry. There are millions of games around the world which are armed with all sorts of creative strategies to entertain human audiences, and the total number of human gamers are fairly limited. What makes it even worse is that videogames do not decay over time (unlike fruits and vegetables which can be expected to be sold over and over due to repeated consumption), and can be played almost everywhere on Earth by any number of people at any time with almost zero physical limitation. At least back in the 90s and early 2000s, people had to buy separate physical copies (e.g. CDs) in order to be able to play the same game in different places; such a barrier is not even a thing nowadays.

All these factors contribute to the over-saturation of the game industry, on top of the sheer difficulty of monetization due to the abundance of free-to-play games, which often leads to the necessity of bloating the whole gameplay session with incessant tides of advertisement and microtransactions, near-empty random reward packs, and other wallet-opening strategies which, when combined in the most economically optimized way, plunge the whole market into a single point of convergence which is hardly anything more than a glorified slot machine.

<005_29>

The ultimate destiny of plutocracy is mediocracy. Even the highest form of artistic and intellectual endeavors are doomed to negligence and ridicule before the face of the so-called "free market", which prioritizes the most addictive and money-sucking work of cliché, that is optimized to appeal to the broadest audience as possible, over the wide spectrum of quirky yet adventurous experiments that were conducted by the game developers of the 80s and 90s back when the videogame industry was not fully mature yet to be able to allow such a point of strategic convergence to be visible. And if you happen to be content with this state of mediocrity in today's gaming culture which financially rewards conformity and punishes individuality, you should probably not be wasting your time reading this article because such a mindset would imply that our value systems hardly align with each other on a fundamental level, and thus render most of our further discussions more or less pointless.

So, what will be a solution to such a state of things? Unless the entire market changes its own inherent characteristics (which is extremely unlikely), the sort of strategic convergence I mentioned above is bound to continue. We simply cannot keep climbing against its natural flow like salmons, while branding ourselves as "hungry artists".

However, we should also note that the reason why such a convergence has been establishing itself so quickly within only a few decades after the initial popularization of videogames is that nearly all commercial games have been exclusively targeting human audiences. From my viewpoint, the underlying assumption that a game must be sold against human customers greatly limits the scope of the gaming market, thereby allowing anyone (or any AI system) who figures out the most optimal strategy of gratifying the average human audience to quickly get promoted into the "ultimate winner" and render further competition mostly meaningless. That is, monopoly is way too easy in the mainstream videogame industry chiefly because it only considers a single type of audience as its source of income - human beings.

If we consider the entire ecosystem of planet Earth as our potential customer base, on the other hand, we will be able to break down the wall of this over-saturated market and start revealing a vast assortment of new opportunities in the business of game development and publication.

<005_30>

And by "ecosystem", what I am referring to is the full spectrum of animals, plants, and even microbial lifeforms which are distributed all over the globe. There is no reason to presuppose that games must be designed only for humans and absolutely no other species, for it is reasonable to say that most behaviors exhibited by the majority of biological species possess their own utilitarian origins (since pointless activities are likely to impose disadvantages upon their courses of survival and reproduction, as far as the context of Darwinian natural selection is concerned), and that the act of play should be deemed as one of such behaviors.

A game is a medium of play, and playing is not necessarily an activity that is exclusive to humans, as is demonstrated by the sheer variety of playful behaviors of cats, dogs, dolphins, and other animal species which do not directly pertain to one's immediate biological benefits in terms of food gathering, security, and other physiological needs. Dogs often wrestle with one another in a mild way, and we usually indicate such a behavioral pattern as a form of play because wrestling itself does not grant them foods, shelters, or any other tangible benefits immediately; rather, such a seemingly wasteful activity may be considered a casual form of "training" or "self-education" - an instinctive method of fulfilling one's belief that frequently being exposed to simulated (fake) challenges will prepare one's mind and body to overcome real dangers by the time they appear. This sort of long-term survival strategy is usually employed by youngsters in the form of games, yet it is also prominent in many parts of our civilization such as military training, workout, rehabilitation, apprenticeship, and many others.

<005_31>

And if we proceed to define the act of play as any activity which can be expected to increase the player's overall chance of survival and reproduction (i.e. degree of competence as a biological being) in future moments in time by means of learning/training which ensue from whichever game it has chosen to play, we can make a fairly educated conjecture that any strategically advanced species in our ecosystem (which may include not only intelligent mammals but also birds, insects, plants, mushrooms, and other branches of living things which express their own cunning methods of survival that are not so instantaneous in their effects) spend significant portions of their time playing their own games.

And if we manage to find out a set of "universal laws" in regard to the nature of play which are being shared across the entire taxonomy of species, we will be able to open up a hidden gateway to the brand new continent of opportunities in game development - for it will let us leverage the whole ecosystem as our target audience.

One may disagree with this notion by saying that it is impossible to monetize one's game if the players are not even human beings, since non-human lifeforms are unable to pay money or benefit businesses by watching their ads. And yes, it will be outrageous to say that a monkey is likely to open up its own bank account, work for a job to earn money, and willingly pay for a videogame that is designed to be played by monkeys. However, such a direct path of monetization is not the only way in which a game can generate revenue.

<005_32>

Let us suppose that there is a videogame designed for cows. If this game manages to make a cow play it (with its tongue and feet) and produce more milk than usual as a result of playing, one will definitely be able to say that the extra quantity of milk produced is the amount of monetary value yielded by the game. There are countless other examples, but I am sure you get the idea. Non-human players will not be able to pay in the form of currencies, but many of them can certainly offer natural resources which are interchangeable with financial assets.

Species that are not animals (e.g. plants and fungi), too, can be managed to play games. They obviously are not capable of playing in the same way as animals do, yet they are nevertheless biological beings which exhibit their own input/output patterns with respect to their surroundings. Thus, it is not so unrealistic for one to fancy that it is definitely feasible to run a game for a vegetable by putting it inside an airtight chamber and letting it interact with the game's internal simulation by exchanging airborne chemicals. Any extra rate of growth displayed by the vegetable will be equated with the amount of profit being generated by the game.

<005_33>

In order to turn this idea of interspecies gaming into a reality, however, we ought not to content ourselves with traditional means of game design which mostly focus on what human players typically experience when they play. Instead, we must break the nature of gameplay down to its most elementary units, from which we can figure out how to construct universally applicable games that are designed to be interactable with a wide variety of species on Earth, not just humans.

This is the reason why I initially began the first volume of this series of articles (volume 1) with the assumption that we should reinvent the methodology of game design based upon the perspective of the most archetypal form of life - that is, a single mathematical point in space whose behavioral spectrum consists of the smallest set of fundamental goals one can ever imagine (i.e. Absorb, Expand, and Secure). The idea is, if we analyze the essence of games based off of the most basic unit of life as their hypothetical player, we will be able to establish a generic design framework which can be applied to the entirety of our ecosystem. This will astronomically expand the horizon of our market niche as game developers.

<005_34>

The "Universal Laws of Game Design" is not about improving in-game economy, enhancing gameplay experiences, or elaborating the game's progression curves (Such technical details have already been thoroughly expounded by numerous academic papers and popular blog posts). It is about fueling a whole new paradigm shift which will revolutionize the entire game industry by completely redefining the meaning of the word "game".

<005_35>

And those who will pioneer this vast new land of opportunities are ones who are willing to listen to opinions which have not been parroted by the mainstream media more than a million times, think forward on a long-term basis, see potentials in the conceptual essence of games rather than an endless chain of buzzwords and cheesy marketing taglines, and not be so quick to dismiss ideas for being "impractical" simply because they do not yield shiny results right off the bat.

The idea presented so far, of course, will require a great deal of additional infrastructure to be built which is separate from that of the existing market. Once built, however, it will create a blue ocean in which there are brand new sources of income originating from not just the demands of entertainment, education, psychotherapy, and training, but also those of our primary industries such as agriculture, fishing, forestry, livestock farming, microbial manufacturing, and many others.

And this prospect can be expected to shine more brightly than ever anytime soon, not only because the idea is relatively new and broadly applicable, but also because our global economy is currently plunging itself into a dark rabbit hole. Ongoing wars and disasters within the world's largest agricultural powerhouses, rise in trade protectionism due to freezing diplomatic relations, as well as the apparent weakening of the status of our reserve currency as the foremost standard of monetary value which leads to the instability of the current US-driven system of global commerce, all contribute to the conviction that life will keep getting harder and harder for years to come.

<005_36>

What this means is that the majority of people will no longer have as much time and money to spend on games as before. Global food shortage is an impending threat to humanity which will manifest itself as soon as the United States abandons her role as the sole protector of free trade, in which case countries that are not fully autonomous in terms of food supply will be in dire situations. And you know what? When there is no food, we simply cannot expect people to have time to spend on playing games; we will have to focus on boosting the efficiency of our primary industries (e.g. agriculture) to the utmost degree by means of various methods of optimization. So if today's game developers want to continue enriching their careers without shifting their area of expertise to something that is drastically different, they better reshape their monetization strategy towards a way in which it directly benefits our primary industries. And the ability to design games which are capable of manipulating the biological output of non-human species is a great starting point of such a journey, as it will imply that such games will have the license to serve as core components of our means of producing foods and other necessities in life.

<005_37>

The importance of industrial autonomy is becoming more and more accentuated nowadays, as is evidenced by the popularity of Blockchain, Hashgraph, DeFi, DApp, Web3, IPFS, and other decentralized means of storing/transferring financial assets. And the heart of such a mode of autonomy lies on the ability to control our material environments (e.g. farms, ocean, forests, mines) through self-sustaining protocols, which deal with subtle psychological interactions of their biological constituents (i.e. organisms) by means of automatic reward/punishment feedback loops. The future of gaming has its own gold mine hidden in this vastly unexplored area, but most developers/publishers do not seem to have realize this yet.

In the next volume, we will see how the universal laws of game design, illustrated so far from volume 1 to volume 10, are going to solidify this vision in an industrially viable way.

(Will be continued in Volume 13)








:d:An article about videogame design and its universal patterns.
:k:Game, Development, Design, Minimalism, Math, Interspecies, Medium

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 13] 2023.04

(Continued from Volume 12)

The possibility of interspecies gaming becomes more and more of a serious business as we consider our upcoming future. As I explained in the previous volume, the necessity of endowing our primary industries (e.g. food and energy production) with the power of autonomy will be more of everyone's interest than ever due to the dwindling degree of reliability in our current mode of global free trade. As the overall degree of mobility in our system of resources decrements, we will be forced to develop some kind of self-sufficiency in our utmost daily needs such as food and petroleum.

And here is a solution. If we design games which can be played by our planet's ecosystem (rather than by human consumers), we will enable ourselves to dig out all sorts of natural resources from our mother nature in an almost fully automatized manner. In a way, thus, we will be entitled to fancy that a "universal game design framework" which is robust enough to serve such purposes must be a sustainable passive-income generator which will extract revenue from the environment by means of dynamically interacting with its ecological participants (i.e. animals, plants, microbes, etc). Every living thing in any biological habitat, such as a forest, a river, a cowshed, or a fish tank, is a potential player which might be able to "pay to win" by utilizing its biological activities in ways which are beneficial to human beings. If a cow plays a game and gets induced to produce extra milk as a result of playing it, for example, we will definitely be able to declare that such a game is a tool for generating revenue in the dairy industry.

<005_38>

In order to be able to design games which are capable of being played by a variety of non-human species, however, we must first come up with "universal laws of game design" which are applicable not only to human players, but also to species whose biological input/output patterns differ greatly from those of humans. And in order to sort them out in forms which can be specified and implemented in practical scenarios without too much hassle, we must establish their logical foundation upon the principle of "mathematical minimalism" and "quantitative expansion" (explained in volume 4). "Mathematical minimalism" allows us to represent abstract concepts without introducing too much complexity, while "quantitative expansion" allows us to keep adding more and more details to our system without introducing additional rules.

While this may be theoretically sound, it is also true that most game developers are likely to be confounded by the notion of building gameplay systems out of such a generic framework which does not specify any "fun" part of the game in particular. Yet, the apparent absence of such a superficial emotion in our conception of the theory makes perfect sense because our shared definition of the word "fun" is more or less confined to the sense of entertainment being felt by human beings, rather than a wide range of interests being shared by a wide spectrum of biological niches which altogether constitute our ecosystem.

Still, it is nevertheless crucial to find a good reason to assure that it is possible to derive a viable set of implementation strategies which are in sync with the aforementioned laws of game design. Once it is proved, we will be able to tell that the idea of constructing universally applicable games out of such laws is not just an assortment of academic imaginations, but more of a body of mutually consistent theories which contribute to the development of a practical business solution.

Let us look back at the overall formulation of the theory which has taken place so far. On the most materialistically fundamental level, we have atoms and their bindings which conceptually represent regions in space and their input/output relations respectively. Each region may denote a spatial location, a unit of energy, an energy potential, an object, a component of an object, or any other entity which is discrete in nature.

<005_39>

When we think about the nature of a gameplay world, we often conceptualize it in terms of "things" which occupy portions of its spatial volume. Such "things" can be interpreted as atoms, since the idea of modelling a universe as a collective sum of its smallest indivisible units (aka "atoms") helps us design its nature in a strictly quantitative (therefore logically traceable) way.

<005_40>

Representing a universe solely based upon its material composition, however, is inadequate for game design purposes because it only shows half of the full picture. A game consists of both mechanics and narratives, which continually augment and rectify each other in a cyclic manner. While material bodies and their respective physical motions do have the capacity to describe the game's mechanics, they do not fully explain (at least in the practical sense) the dynamics of living things and their emotional behaviors. Therefore, aside from a collection of atoms which represent the physical entities of the world, we need yet another collection of atoms which represent the narratives of those entities. What is perhaps the most intuitive form of such a collection is a tree of goals, in which each component node is an atom denoting a goal to pursue.

<005_41>

From a holistic viewpoint, what we implicitly observe is a pair of trees which can respectively be labelled as "Tree of Existence" and "Tree of Purpose". The former is the universe's overall hierarchy of mechanical beings, whereas the latter is the collective hierarchy of their goals. The Tree of Existence continually modifies the structure of the Tree of Purpose, while the Tree of Purpose continually modifies the structure of the Tree of Existence (by adding and subtracting "motive molecules", as demonstrated in volume 10). This gives birth to a cycle of mutual reinforcement between the game's mechanics and their respective narratives. Anyone who has control over both of these two trees must have full control over the universe.

One might question this way of modelling by saying, "So, why represent the whole game as a pair of trees which are made up of individual atoms and their hierarchical associations? Wouldn't it be a much better idea to simply represent the game world as one continuous Euclidean space, in which all sorts of geometric shapes can reside and play their own roles as gameplay agents such as the player, NPCs, props, obstacles, traps, and so forth? Why bother introducing obscure topological concepts to the scene, if we can leverage the knowledge of our natural geometry as means of triggering a variety of in-game events?"

This question makes perfect sense to a certain extent, except that such a Euclidean model begins to reveal its own severe limitations as soon as we go deeper into the subject of gameplay dynamics and their ensuing suggestion of complexity.

When we represent our in-game objects as geometric figures instead of a topological network of nodes, what we are immediately bound to realize is the necessity to design our game mechanics based upon fairly complicated geometric calculations such as those which pertain to global/local coordinate systems, vector math, spatial hashing, collision detection, raycast, and many other mathematical constructs which are not clearly understood by most game development professionals whose areas of expertise are outside of the domain of engineering. Unless it is one's intention to exclude anyone who is not well-versed in mathematics from being part of the game design process, it is necessary to start the conceptual foundation of the gameplay universe from a model that is much more approachable from a layman's perspective (That is, discrete atoms and their bindings).

Aside from the ease of comprehension, there are two other reasons why our discrete model is superior to geometric representations. One is that it is much more convenient to express complex objects as an assembly of discrete functional components than to express it as a continuous volume in space (for it is not so difficult to imagine that space itself does not intrinsically possess rooms for functional endowment), and the other one is that it is way easier to implement discrete components and their relations in our digital computers than things which are spatially continuous (aka "analog") in nature.

In order to demonstrate the ease of implementation, let us first suppose that we are planning to develop a computer game based upon the "universal laws of game design" introduced so far, using a conventional programming language such as C/C++ along with a conventional development framework such as OpenGL. There are other equally viable means of implementation, but being able to create a game inside our modern general-computing framework seems to be a decent starting ground for the purpose of proving that these "universal laws" really are universal in the sense that they can be applied to games which are playable in most commercial electronic devices (such as PCs, tablets, phones, game consoles, etc).

(1) Computer-Based Implementation

If the basis of our game design began with the conception of Euclidean space, prototyping a game would have been a massive pain due to the fact that it would require us to equip the project with math, graphics, and physics libraries just to demonstrate the core dynamics of the design. Fortunately, we do not have to deal with such technical details when we represent every in-game component as a discrete entity called "atom", since it can simply be implemented as a chunk of data (i.e. struct), stored as an element of an array. Its bindings are nothing more than pointers which point to other atoms in the array.

<005_42>

Components of a physical object, positions in space, signals, signal receptors, energy particles, potentials, and myriads of other indivisible spatial entities can all be described as "atoms" from a purely computational standpoint, and thus they can all be represented as instances of the atom-struct inside this single array.

In order to distinguish atoms which "exist" from those which "do not exist", all we have to do is mark the first two elements of the array as "real space" and "imaginary space", respectively, and then make all "existing atoms" point to the real space and all "non-existing atoms" point to the imaginary space. This way, the programmer won't even have to create separate arrays or come up with a clever memory allocation scheme to be able to endow them with separate existential characteristics. Pointer values (i.e. bindings) will automatically render such distinctions.

<005_43>

Goals, too, can be represented as atoms because they are discrete entities with topological bindings. This means that they are not even the slightest bit different from spatial (physical) atoms in the sense that they are elements in the array of atom-structs. Relationships between gameplay agents and their respective goals can simply be indicated by their mutual bindings (i.e. pointers).

<005_44>

Creation and fulfillment of goals, as well as their subsequent modification of the physical arrangement of things in the material universe, can be implemented as functions which get executed as the program traverses the goal tree. In a way, therefore, the entire goal tree may as well be imagined as the hierarchy of all function calls within the game.

<005_45>

One may object to the notion of designing the whole game based upon atoms and their interconnections, perhaps by saying that our in-game objects are complex beings which possess a wide range of graphically and physically rich components rather than mathematical points in space, such as meshes, materials, hitboxes, joints, bones, animations, and so on. However, we ought to behold that the atom-based model is meant to be the underlying functional skeleton of the game rather than the result of its full implementation. The final product, for sure, cannot be constructed solely out of atoms and their relations. Yet, the idea is that once we have a rigid gameplay framework which can be expressed in terms of these abstract elements (the main benefit of such a framework being that its dynamic nature can be easily understood by all types of game development professionals such as designers, artists, musicians, engineers, QAs, and producers), we can simply proceed to finish the rest of the project by adding separable layers of complexity on top of them.

For example, as long as we suppose that a compound object is a graph made up of atoms and their bindings, it is not difficult to fancy that each of its constituent atoms is an individual body part of a creature, equipped with its own transform, mesh, material, hitbox, physical joint (such as a hinge), and other typical gameplay-related components. These all exist in addition to the underlying atomic representation of the object, which means that all the complexities which arise from the problem of handling various assets and other implementation details can easily be separated out from the core structure of the gameplay. This is the art of modularity.

<005_46>

(2) Custom Hardware Implementation

For utmost optimization, one may even proceed to develop games by coming up with one's own custom hardware instead of relying on the computational framework of a general-purpose computing device such as a PC. In such a scenario, too, our atom-based gameplay system turns out to be highly compatible both in terms of design and implementation.

Let us imagine that every one of the atoms in our gameplay universe is a circuit component whose bindings are represented as wires. Since atoms change their bindings as the game progresses, such wires will have to be able to rearrange their endpoints every time the game's electronic clock ticks itself. This means that, on the semiconductor level, it is possible to implement the whole gameplay system by manufacturing an integrated circuit which consists of two layers - the lower one being the two-dimensional array of atoms, and the upper one being the two-dimensional array of wires and their signal routers. By reconfiguring the way in which the routers join their wires with each other, one can reconfigure the way in which the atoms are bound to one another. Creation and execution of goals will be nothing more than mere atom-to-atom interactions which happen via modifications in their respective wire connections, all taking place in parallel and thus allowing the game to run blazingly fast.

<005_47>

(3) Chemical Implementation

Our atom-based model is even more compatible with a chemical computing system, although such a system has not reached a sufficiently high level of popularity yet. Due to the obvious analogy between our hypothetical "atoms" as the individual building blocks of our game design and the real atoms of our actual physical surroundings, it is not hard to imagine that one has the right to claim the feasibility of building a chemical computer which leverages the science of real molecular interactions as means of simulating the atom-based gameplay model.

As long as we assume that the game world consists of a fabric of space which is permitted to warp its own shape at any time, it will be quite possible to say that every gas molecule which fills up the chemical computer's airtight chamber is a set of "spatial atoms" which represent positions in space (If one wants a strictly 2D Euclidean gameplay space of a fixed shape and size instead, there will need to be a well-polished crystal plane, in which case each atom constituting the surface of its crystalline structure will be interpreted as a spatial atom).

<005_48>

In this chemistry-driven simulation space, each in-game agent is nothing more than a molecular compound which dynamically interacts with other molecular compounds, under the influence of "motive molecules" which are injected into the chamber for the purpose of catalysis. That is, injection of motive molecules can be interpreted as a process of putting some kind of "holistic motives" (i.e. cosmic purpose) to the game's overall landscape of narratives, whereas the subsequent injection of another set of molecules which dissolve those motive molecules (thereby disabling their roles as motivational catalysts) can be interpreted as a process of demotivation which cancels out the state of volitional arousal. The so-called "motive molecules" are basically the hormones of our chemical environment, responsible for handling the overall mood of the deity which rules over its internal universe.

As we can tell from the examples illustrated so far, it is not so hard to expand the universal laws of game design into forms that are physically implementable. The last remaining question is whether this revelation will lead to commercially viable solutions by letting our end products interact with the ecosystem in profitable ways.

And my answer is, "Yes, definitely". Since it is now proven that the generic interspecies gaming model can be implemented within pretty much any computing device (e.g. PC, phone, console, etc) as well as other physical analogues, the rest of the technical problem only lies on that of introducing an appropriate user interface for whichever target audience we are aiming at. If the player is a cow in a cowshed, for instance, we will need to mount a screen for the cow to look at, a pressure sensor which will fire a signal when licked by the cow, and a dispenser which will "reward" the cow by releasing a piece of bite-sized fodder whenever the cow conducts a peculiar licking activity which biologically induces it to produce more milk than usual.

While this specific cow example may not be economically viable in reality, we should also remind ourselves that there are countless other potentially lucrative scenarios we can venture to imagine in various industries as well as the nature itself. After all, we are all already aware an age-old human activity which can be described as an "interspecies game"; it is called "fishing". A person throws a bait into the surface of a lake with the help of a fishing rod, which effectively converts the whole habitat into a multiplayer gaming arena (aka "MOBA") in which each fish is a player who participates in the game by actively competing with other fish to spot the bait first and eat it, for the purpose of rewarding itself with the extra energy (calories) it is expected to obtain by the act of grabbing the bait. In this case, the bait is the "resource" of each fish player, and any other fish is its "obstacle". One could say that the fisher basically turned the whole lake into a gaming area by artificially assigning the two opposing properties ("resource" and "obstacle") to the lake's atomic constituents.

(Will be continued in Volume 14)









:d:An article about videogame design and its universal patterns.
:k:Animal-Game, Game, AI, Entertainment, Non-Human, Gameplay, Minigame

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 14] 2023.05

(Continued from Volume 13)

Throughout the previous two volumes, I explained the viability of the universal laws of game design as a backbone of future applications in the field of interspecies gaming. The idea that was first expounded was the weakening of the so-called "entertainment industry" as a profitable niche, which led to the notion that development efforts of our upcoming generations will eventually be more focused on multidisciplinary applications of games such as those which directly generate revenue from our primary industries such as farming, mining, fishery, forestry, and manufacturing.

This source of inspiration originates from the belief that, as the gaming market has been becoming more and more of a red ocean (compounded by the fact that contemporary game developers are competing with not only other developers but also AI and other means of automation), a game which is solely designed for human entertainment is hardly going to survive as a reliable means of income generation. This has been evidenced by the disproportionately huge focus on the concept of P2E (Play to Earn) happening in our Web3 gaming community, which suggests that one can no longer sufficiently convince the audience of the value of a game without giving them an obvious financial incentive to play it.

It is not nonsensical to conclude, therefore, that we are entering a new era of gaming in which the very definition of the term "game" must broaden itself out towards areas which had previously been deemed completely irrelevant to the notion of gaming. One may say that this has already been happening in many non-mainstream gameplay applications such as therapeutic games, educational games, training simulations, and so forth, yet such use cases are more or less solely focused on human experiences and thus are quite limited in their scope compared to the full spectrum of possibilities we may potentially uncover.

What the universal laws of game design are aiming at is a solid set of philosophies which will help us lay down the theoretical foundation for games that can be played not only by human beings, but also by livestock, agricultural crops, fish, wild animals, and even microscopic organisms. And the reasoning behind this kind of endeavor is that, once we figure out how to make a game that is universally playable by our planet's entire ecosystem, we will be able to turn our whole globe (aka "Gaia") into a gamer who has the potential to "pay" us by means of changing its own environmental configuration which can be considered beneficial to mankind (See volume 12 for more details).

<005_49>

Someone might say, "Animals are too stupid to play games that are made by humans. And we cannot even make them playtest and give us constructive feedback. You are speaking pure nonsense here!" To such a point of argument, I would first respond by saying that the average human player is not that intelligent either, and also that the series of reasons I am about to display below all speak in favor of what I have been suggesting so far.

(1) First of all, animals do not necessarily have to be "smart" in the sense of general intelligence in order to be able to play games. Abstract forms of reasoning which are deemed exclusive to mankind, such as symbol-based languages, mathematics, and so forth, are hardly needed in the act of play unless we are aiming to design a complex management simulator or a strategy game which requires a great deal of background knowledge and insight. After all, today's gaming industry, due to its extremely high degree of internal competition, has already been veering towards the direction of massive "dumbing down" of the whole entertainment sphere by oversimplifying games all the way down to the most instantly gratifying level of gluttony one can ever conceive of (e.g. hypercasual games). Such an ongoing shift in the mainstream game design strategy already pretty much aligns with the phenomenon we can expect from our near future - that is, games that are so incredibly patronizing in terms of the level of intellect they require from the user, that they can even be played by an amoeba.

(2) Conducting playtest with animals is far easier than with human beings. We do not need to compensate animals for playtesting, nor do we ever have to ask animals to reserve their own time slots to test the game. Also, animals do not have to be our friends, acquaintences, or fans in order to let us convince them that it is worthwhile to spend their time playing the game without incentives that are sufficiently great in magnitude. All we have to do is simply put the game console in front of animals in the cage (if they are either livestock or lab animals) or just put it in the middle of a natural habitat such as a forest, a meadow, or an ocean. As long as the game console is designed to automatically interact with any nearby animals of our interest (whether they be wild cats, insects, birds, wolves, fish, etc), the only work we will have to do is place a functioning copy of that console in an appropriate place and wait for playtesters to naturally come over out of curiosity. Receiving feedback from animal playtesters, too, is a piece of cake. Unlike human beings whose range of responses are quite complex and are subject to great individual variances (e.g. Hardcore Gamers VS Casual Gamers, In-App Purchasers VS Ad-Watchers, etc), animals and their monetary outputs are pretty straightforward to measure and analyze. Want to design a game which increases revenue in the dairy industry? Just measure the average quantity of milk generated by a group of cows which played the game, and compare it with the average quantity of milk generated by a group of cows which did not play the game. The resulting difference should indicate the amount of "success" of the game in terms of extra milk production, and any change in the game's design which increments this particular metric should be considered a right decision to make.

(3) Animal gamers are much easier to deal with than human gamers, which is an obvious advantage when it comes to the amount of work that is involved in tricky interpersonal businesses such as "customer service", "community maintenance", and all that jazz. Animals do not demand release dates, early access privilege, demo footage, Discord server moderation, marketing hype, buzzwords, and many others which pertain to the social psychology of the mass rather than the game's intrinsic quality as a medium of interaction. Animals do not even leave a single negative comment on Steam, nor do they complain whenever they feel like they are required to pay something which is worth more than a quarter dollar in order to obtain a special sword that is powerful enough to wipe out the whole dungeon as soon as it touches one of its hitboxes. Animals simply interact with what is available right in front of them if they are interested, or simply leave if they are not interested. There is no need to cuddle them like babies who need constant emotional care, and this is definitely a huge budget-saver when we consider the amount of workforce which would've been forced to be expended otherwise.

(4) Animals are much more straightforward in their reward-driven behaviors than humans. A typical human gamer would often expect a well-formulated lore, immersive UI/UX, hyper-realistic graphics and sound, non-exploitative in-game economy, meta-game features such as events, leaderboards, eSports (e.g. spectator mode), and many other complex systems which, when combined as a whole, are prone to convolute the whole product into an ugly mess of engineering nightmare. Animals, on the other hand, are extremely simple in their demands and their behaviors are way more predictable. All we have to do is give them food or anything else that they are naturally fond of (such as catnip for cats) whenever they do what we want them to do. Any conscious biological being that is keen to perceive the obvious advantage of being engaged in an act of exchange qualifies as one of our customers, and I am sure that our planet's ecosystem is primarily filled with such economically minded beings because most of them would have gone extinct if strategic decision-making weren't part of their appetite. For our own benefit, therefore, we just have to give them things which are more valuable to them than to us (such as grass for cows, since we cannot eat grass but cows can), in exchange for them giving us things which are more valuable to us than to them (such as a piece of coal, ore, or gem, since animals do not use them).

<005_50>

(5) Marketing will be close to being unnecessary if we do not consider human beings as our main target audience. Humans are way too much occupied with social media, work, hobbies, conversations, and many other daily distractions, which compels us to utilize various marketing strategies such as advertisement, teasers, and community-building just for the slightest hope of grabbing people's attention. Animals, on the other hand, have a much more confined list of interests (e.g. seeking foods, finding mates, protecting one's offspring) which means that we can easily grab their attention as long as we manage to present them with a medium which pertains to one of such instinctual focal points. A machine which emits a smell of food, for instance, will attract wild animals even from a long distance as long as it is placed amidst a forest, without having to explain to them why this particular smell of food is something worth spending their time on. This will continue to be the case unless the entire forest gets flooded with too many of such machines, in which case the target animals are likely to be spread out in multiple places and thus reduce the overall density of engagement in each machine.

<005_51>

Due to reasons like these, it is quite a surprise for me to realize that most game developers and publishers have been focusing solely on human entertainment which represents only a tiny fraction of what games can offer from a business point of view.

Another question which may arise at this point is, "Okay, I get your flow of logic here. But why on earth would you have any reason to claim that the so-called "universal laws of game design" are antecedent to the idea of interspecies gaming? If interacting with animals is much simpler than interacting with humans, why would we even need such a seemingly complicated set of theories to be able to construct games that are expected to be played by animals?"

To be honest, a theoretical framework is probably not necessary for a mere proof of concept. We may as well just build a vending machine which dispenses a fish whenever a dolphin donates a piece of plastic, for instance, and place it somewhere inside the ocean to let it function as an ocean cleaner. And for sure, such an application does not require any "theory" other than ones that are needed for figuring out how to manufacture such a machine and where to place it. So when it comes to immediate applicability, case-by-case analysis may suffice (e.g. "What does this animal want, and what can we gain from it when we give it what it wants?", etc).

We should also note, however, that the domain of interactions we are dealing with in interspecies gaming is the whole ecosystem (rather than completely isolated environments) where countless living things and natural resources are causally related to one another. When we place a game console in the middle of a forest which gives food to foxes whenever they play a game, for example, it can be expected to warp the forest's ecological dynamics in ways which may either benefit or harm us due to its side effects such as: (1) Increment in the number of potential preys of the foxes due to the introduction of an alternative source of nutrients, (2) Increment in the total number of foxes because of the increased chances of mating due to the fact that they now tend to gather in the same place (i.e. near the game console), (3) Higher chances for predators to hunt down foxes because they may be vulnerable against external attacks while playing games, and so on.

<005_52>

The long-term consequence of such side effects is something which requires a great deal of scientific research to predict, and is not something we can foresee just by looking at individual cases and their immediate outcomes. When we are developing games which are designed to entertain human beings, we can assure that such games will not directly influence our environment as a whole because it will only involve changes in the moods of human players and their personal expenditure of their own personal time. When we are developing games which are designed to involve direct exchanges of tangible resources with wild animals, on the other hand, we must be aware of their direct influences over the environment because such factors may severely disturb the overall balance of the food chain and hurt our passage of income in the long run.

And in order to analyze the ecological implications of a game in a scientific manner, we must reestablish the whole game design framework based upon a purely mathematical model which does not attach itself to vague emotional terminologies such as "fun", "engaging", and "creative". It is because what we are dealing with here is a set of strictly quantitative relations among things which pertain to our economic interests.

The underlying theory of the new kind of game design I have introduced so far is meant to be both mathematically minimal and quantitatively expandable - "minimal" because the design must be understood by anyone who has received a decent level of education, and "expandable" because the design's scope must be able to encompass the entirety of our ecosystem rather than specific use cases alone. And for the purpose of justifying this train of logic, I will start with an example that is fairly easy to understand.

Let us imagine that we are in the middle of a jungle, which is populated by a sufficiently high number of monkeys. We have a machine mounted on a fairly visible part of the ground, not obscured too much by rocks and trees (which makes it an ideal spot for attracting animal customers). If we are to let this machine execute a game that is playable by any monkey in this habitat, what shall we do?

The very first step I can think of is to just use our common sense. For example, we know that monkeys eat bananas, right? This means that the machine should probably be able to have a bunch of bananas ready and hand them over to monkeys whenever they "win" the game. This is a rudimentary reward mechanism which is so simple and straightforward, that even an average human player can understand it (which means monkeys should have no trouble understanding it as well).

The next step is to determine the condition of winning, as well as to make sure that monkeys understand it. This is a tricky part of the design because we want to require monkeys to exhibit a behavior which is beneficial to us before they win the game. Obviously, it is necessary for us to first identify types of monkey-activities which provide us with resources that are valuable to us, and then find out a way to make monkeys realize that they ought to perform those activities in order to receive the treats they desire.

The aforementioned criteria should be satisfied if we interface things in the right way. For sure, a completely opaque and airtight box with a bucketful of bananas in it won't encourage monkeys to partake in any banana-seeking attempts, since they won't even realize that there are bananas in the first place. The machine should be designed to let monkeys notice the presence of bananas (probably by means of a transparent and scent-emitting chamber), as well as to let them learn the method of obtaining those bananas. This "learning" part of the interface is indeed quite difficult to formulate because, just like human players, monkeys do not read instruction manuals. Thus we cannot teach them the full course of the game's reward mechanism right at the very beginning of their gameplay experience (If we try to do so, they will simply get frustrated and "rage quit" just as a typical human player would do).

A solution to the problem stated above is to break down the whole game into a series of individual missions, each of which is so simple and intuitive that monkeys already know how to play it. For instance, let us suppose that we want monkeys to deposit pieces of wood into the machine in exchange for receiving bananas as a reward (because we would like to use those pieces of wood as a fuel). Since we do not know how to directly explain this win-condition to monkeys, we must solve this communication problem by splitting it into smaller ones which parallel the sequence of archetypal monkey-behaviors.

When a monkey sees a cage of bananas, it may try to reach one of them by stretching its arm as much as possible. When this primary method fails, it may try to open it up by the act of beating, shaking, pushing, and pulling. When this secondary method fails, it may try to search for a hidden passage through which it may enter the cage, and so on and so forth. Here, we can recognize that the monkey's decision-making process consists of a cascade of problem-solving strategies which are functionally separable from one another.

<005_53>

What this means is that these individual strategies can be mapped into their own corresponding reward-and-punishment feedback loops, which will effectively turn them into mini-games (aka "quests") that can be played by the monkey without requiring it to learn anything new (because such a series of mini-games, when carefully crafted, will align with the monkey's default line of behaviors).

<005_54>

Such decomposition will then help the designer construct each phase of the game in a highly modular manner, thereby reducing the complexity of the design process by orders of magnitude. Once decomposed, each part will then be able to be represented as a discrete mathematical (i.e. atom-based) model which had been described so far. In the next volume, I will explain the benefits of this approach.

(Will be continued in Volume 15)









:d:An article about videogame design and its universal patterns.
:k:Mini-Game, Pathfinding, Behavioral, Science, Game-Science, Game-Psychology, Evolution

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 15] 2023.05

(Continued from Volume 14)

In the previous volume, I introduced the idea of decomposing the whole game into a cascade of multiple subroutines called "mini-games" for the sake of simplifying the design process. As I hinted during the first half of volume 1, a game can be represented as a sequence of sub-goals which ultimately contribute to the fulfillment of the player's ultimate goals as a biological entity: "Absorb", "Expand", and "Secure". Since the full chain of such sub-goals is way too convoluted to be depicted as a single mathematical construct, it should be deemed wise to break it down into mini-games each of which is designed to direct the player's attention to only one of such sub-goals instead of all of them at once.

And since the behavioral nature of any organism (at least within a particular theoretical context which I have been assuming so far) can be modeled in terms of the changes in its distances (i.e. pathfinding costs) from 3 distinct types of atoms which are denoted by "Resources", "Influences", and "Obstacles", it should be also wise to suppose that each mini-game guides the player's behavior based upon the presence of its own temporarily defined set of resources, influences, and obstacles.

Let us go back to the monkey example which was introduced in the previous volume. Here, each mini-game can be considered a separate universe - a universe which possesses its own set of resources and obstacles for the monkey to interact with. In the first mini-game, the outside of the cage is the monkey's obstacle because approaching the center of the cage (i.e. the place where the banana is located) is basically the same thing as running away from any location which exists outside of the cage. Meanwhile, the banana is the monkey's resource within this mini-game because the monkey is expected to simply stretch its arm towards the banana during its very first attempt to acquire it. In the second mini-game, the cage's mesh is the monkey's obstacle and its inside is the monkey's resource because such a configuration propels the monkey to try to open up the cage by trying to destroy the cage's mesh (in order to move it to the heaven (i.e. imaginary space)) while also trying to sneak into the cage as soon as part of it gets destroyed. In the third mini-game, the cage's mesh is still the monkey's obstacle but now a hidden passage which leads to the inside of the cage (if it exists) is identified as the resource instead.

<005_55>

These three mini-games all happen in the same place (i.e. game console), though. Therefore, it is sensible for us to think about the overall time-invariant representation of the gameplay space with which the monkey is engaged, which is basically the union of all spatial entities and their network of mutual bindings found in all of the aforementioned mini-games. Inside such a holistic view, everything is an atom; the monkey is an atom, the outside of the cage is an atom, the inside of the cage is an atom, and so on.

<005_56>

The three mini-games are nothing more than different interpretations of the same overall picture, which may be referred to as separate parallel universes whose characteristics differ based upon the observer's motivational state. In the first mini-game, the monkey tries to directly reach the banana which is located somewhere that is not part of the outside of the cage. Thus in this particular scenario, the monkey defines the outside of the cage as an obstacle (which is must avoid) and the banana as a resource (which it must follow). The rest of the two mini-games follow the same kind of logic.

<005_57>

Once the three distinct parallel universes are superimposed into a single unified picture, we see the full landscape of the game's narrative in the form of multi-stage resources/obstacles, where each stage is denoted by an index such as 1, 2, or 3 (referring to the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd mini-games, respectively).

<005_58>

And if we expand this model into distinct time intervals each of which represents the duration during which the monkey gets engaged in each mini-game, we will obtain the landscape of the monkey's gameplay in the form of a space-time continuum. In this model, the agent which plays the first mini-game is the copy of the monkey-atom which belongs to time 1, the agent which plays the second mini-game is the copy of the monkey-atom which belongs to time 2, and the agent which plays the third mini-game is the copy of the monkey-atom which belongs to time 3.

<005_59>

The ultimate purpose of the game, of course, is not just to entertain the monkey by letting it find its way to the banana without necessarily benefiting the owner of the game console. The machine will eventually have to encourage the monkey to insert a piece of wood into its deposit box (This is a monkey version of "Pay to Win"), and such a peculiar kind of motivation should not be expected from any of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd mini-games which were illustrated above.

The solution to this problem is straightforward; we just have to add additional mini-games to the monkey's expected course of gameplay. Let us assume that there is the 4th mini-game which is designed to inform the monkey that inserting a piece of wood into the machine will help it obtain the banana. How will this 4th mini-game have to be designed to serve such a purpose?

First of all, we do not know the language of monkeys in a sufficiently accurate manner and therefore cannot afford to come up with an NPC who will appear before the monkey and say the sentence: "Bring a piece of wood and I will give you a banana!" in monkey-speak. So we must communicate with the monkey based upon a universal language called "demonstration". All we have to do is periodically display a live demo of the feedback loop between a wooden piece and a banana in front of the monkey, either by means of a video footage on a screen or by means of a mechanical automaton which involves a robotic monkey and a fake banana. The demo can simply show a virtual monkey dropping a piece of wood into the machine and getting a banana as a reward, dropping another piece and getting another banana, dropping yet another piece and getting yet another banana, and so on (in a cyclic manner, repeating the same sequence of events indefinitely). This will make the monkey realize that, since it has become quite apparent (after playing the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd mini-games) that there is no way to directly reach the banana, or to open up the cage, or to find a hidden passage, the only remaining solution is to watch the live demo and mimic what is happening inside of it.

<005_60>

Once the monkey copies the behavior shown by the demonstration footage, fetches a nearby piece of wood, and puts it into the game console's deposit box, it will immediately verify that the scenario showcased by the demo is indeed an accurate reflection of reality by seeing an actual banana dropping in front of it as a reward. After this initial confirmation, we can pretty much assure that the monkey will bring more and more pieces of wood and drop them into the box for the purpose of earning more and more bananas. As long as the amount of effort it takes to find a new piece of wood and bring it back to the machine is smaller than the amount of effort it takes to find a natural source of food (e.g. a naturally grown banana on a banana tree), the monkey will be engaged in this artificial feedback loop whenever it gets hungry.

On a schematic level, this whole feedback loop can be broken down into two mini-games - namely, the 4th and the 5th. The 4th mini-game begins as soon as the monkey watches the demo and learns about the quest it is required to carry out in order to receive the reward it desires (i.e. banana). In this mini-game, the monkey interprets any piece of wood as a resource because it is what it needs to collect in order to unlock the "reward" side of the feedback loop. The inside of the cage, on the other hand, is interpreted as the monkey's obstacle because visiting locations that are part of the cage itself won't help the monkey discover a piece of wood.

Once the monkey successfully gets ahold of a piece of wood, the 5th mini-game begins. In this mini-game, the inside of the cage is interpreted as a resource because the monkey is supposed to bring the piece of wood back to the cage in order to complete the mission, and the outside of the cage is interpreted as an obstacle because one's desire to approach the cage is the same thing as one's desire to run away from any location which belongs to the outside of the cage.

<005_61>

The thing is, the monkey won't just stop right after it receives its first reward. It will continue playing the game by repeating the 4th mini-game and 5th mini-game multiple times (i.e. finding and retrieving more and more pieces of wood) in order to receive the same reward over and over again, until its stomach becomes full. Unless it somehow forgets its initial experience with the machine, however, it will never repeat the first three mini-games because those have already been proven to be ineffective. So the first three can be considered the monkey's FTUE (First Time User Experience), as opposed to its main gameplay loop which consists of the 4th and 5th mini-games.

<005_62>

But of course, this constantly rewarding gameplay won't last that long because each monkey can manage to eat only a fairly small number of bananas at a time. One may consider reducing the size of each reward down to only a small portion of a banana in order to alleviate this problem, yet such a kind of reduction risks potential loss of interest due to its decreased level of cost-effectiveness; that is, the monkey may simply think, "Why bother searching for a piece of wood in the first place, if all I am promised to get is just a tiny subsection of a banana? I will rather just directly search for a banana tree instead, where I can expect to find whole bananas and even bundles of them!"

A better solution to this is to turn the game console into a slot machine. Instead of handing over the exact same piece of reward to the monkey every time it accomplishes a mission, this machine would sometimes hand over a relatively large treat, sometimes a relatively small treat, or sometimes nothing at all (depending on the result of a dice roll). This gambling mechanic will motivate the monkey to be way more intensely engaged in its wood-fetching activity than it would've been if its earnings were highly predictable in nature, for such a configuration introduces an uplifting sense of fascination which springs from one's expectation of a "surprise reward" - a jovial sort of hope which makes the monkey dream of winning a huge fortune during its next trial, thereby driving it to play the game over and over gain just for the sheer anticipation that its own fantasy will make an unprecedented visit and knock the door of reality at some point in time.

And we can proceed to add more and more design elements to the game as needed, which will enrich the monkey's gameplay experience further and further until we are assured that the game console is sufficiently effective in terms of generating revenue out of monkeys in the forest. We may consider employing intransitive mechanics, rubberbanding, exponential/logarithmic progression curves, and myriads of other strategies for maximizing the profit. However, full exposition of such technical details is not what these articles are intended for.

To recap, I would say that the initial motivation behind the search for "universal laws of game design" was the desire to introduce a purely mathematical model in which all sorts of seemingly vague gameplay concepts become endowed with the privilege of merging themselves into a set of strictly quantitative definitions, rather than an endless continuum of case-by-case examples and generic marketing phrases.

And throughout all volumes of this series of articles, it has always been of the foremost priority to ensure that such a pure structure of reasoning be invariably preceded by our common understanding of the physical reality which surrounds us, which comprises space, matter energy, information, and other shared conceptual elements which, when combined, constitute the dynamics of our universe.

A fictional gameplay universe is made up of atoms, each of which may represent a spatial location, an energy particle (which could belong to not just one of physical kinds, but also one of psychological kinds such as emotions), a part of a mechanical body, a volitional element, or any other physical/metaphysical entity which can be considered indivisible. From an arrangement of atoms and their relations, various mechanics and narratives emerge both of which reinforce one another in a cyclic manner (Mechanics give birth to new narratives, and narratives give birth to new mechanics). And since it is possible to mathematically define atoms and their relations, it must also be possible (under the principle of additivity) to mathematically define their ensuing mechanics, narratives, and their suggestion of gameplay as a whole.

It is likely to be argued, though, that the theoretical model which has been devised so far is way too structurally abstract to be comprehended and/or utilized by most people, except ones who are quite familiar with discrete mathematics. And this is a perfectly valid argument, especially when we notice that one of the primary goals of the universal laws of game design is to make sure that they are "universal" in the sense that anyone who possesses a decent level of academic literacy must be able to grasp their nature regardless of one's own area of expertise.

However, it should also be noted that the symbols and numerous other notations I have used so far to explain these universal laws are not an absolute set of grammatical rules which we all most follow with utmost precision. After all, it is the underlying body of concepts that is of our interest, rather the specific syntax we choose to express them. In a practical scenario in which we are to design a game, we probably do not want to draw out every energy particle, every signal particle which may be transmitted from one place to another, every potential which may or may not let an energy particle come in or move out, every minuscule body part of an organism, or every single point in space as an atom and its collection of bindings. So for efficiency and ease of understanding, we may consider introducing notational conventions (i.e. syntactic sugar) to the way in which we represent our model.

If we assume that our gameplay space comprises a two-dimensional grid of voxels, for example, it is more intuitively satisfying for us to denote each voxel (i.e. spatial location) by a square area instead of an atom. Also, it is more intuitively satisfying for us to denote each energy potential by a small numerical label attached to the corner of its containing voxel, which tells the location's energy-type and energy-level.

<005_63>

Also, while it has conceptually been supposed that a connected pair of component atoms in a compound object basically have their medium of communication be made of a "connector" atom which works as an intermediary (like a telephone wire) for the sake of functional modularity, we find that such a representation is way too notationally verbose. Therefore it is often desirable in practical circumstances to simplify the expression of such a concept down to a single line segment rather than a whole separate atom to which both of the ends are bound.

<005_64>

When an object is made up of multiple atoms, we can imagine that some of them may belong to the same voxel while others may not. Fully specifying such a state of locational diversity purely in terms of atoms and their bindings tends to make things appear too complicated. If we use the notational conventioned stated above, however, the resulting graphical representation becomes so clear that even people who do not understand high school math can see what is going on.

<005_65>

From a holistic viewpoint, we can easily see that the aforementioned set of simplifications help us design our gameplay world in a crystal clear manner. In this discrete universe which is reminiscent of a tabletop game, every point in space is a voxel whose coordinates are just the row and column of the grid. Every object is made up of one or more atoms, each of which occupies one voxel at a time as its current position. And both a voxel and an object-atom can have a list of numbers attached to itself, where each number refers to the energy-level of a potential through which energy can be transmitted.

<005_66>

The space (i.e. grid) is filled with various types of energy potentials and their respective levels, and differences (aka "gradients") between levels of adjacent potentials essentially constitute a "force field" which can be depicted as a distribution of vectors in space. Atoms are naturally disposed to follow these force vectors, which means that we can manipulate the way in which atoms move by simply warping the shape of their field (That is, by changing the energy levels of potentials). And the process of motivation, besides its initial interpretation as an act of temporarily adding a "motive molecule" to the arrangement of atoms, may alternatively be represented as an act of temporarily incrementing/decrementing the levels of a specific group of potentials.

As a whole, this conceptual framework is so generic yet endowed with a sense of mathematical precision, that it is not so hard to imagine the possibility of all sorts of intriguing applications which can be brewed out of it. A wide spectrum of sandbox elements (such as doors, switches, traps, storages, and many others), for instance, can be implemented by first arranging multiple pathways through which certain types of energy exchange can happen, and then letting specific types of events turn on/off some of these pathways in a selective manner (e.g. A key unlocking a door, a foot triggering a signal by stepping on a pressure plate, etc).

This concludes the overview of concepts and their methods of realization in our search for "universal laws of game design".

Since a game is a fairly complex universe in which countless mechanics and narratives are intertwined with one another, it may be claimed that we cannot take account of all of its intricate details and their ensuing varieties. And it is a perfectly valid argument for sure. However, just because something is complex does not mean that we should remain clueless about it and simply confine ourselves to mere trial-and-error methodology. Just as psychology, sociology, political science, economics, and many other academic subjects endeavor to explain the nature of complex systems based upon generalized models, one should regard a similar attempt in the field of game design not as a sign of "overthinking", but as a genuine intent to figure out a reusable set of building blocks out of which games can be assembled.

(End of "Universal Laws of Game Design")







:d:An article on the fears and hopes of the upcoming age of general-purpose artificial intelligence.
:k:AI, Automation, 4th, Fourth, Industrial, Revolution, Monopoly, GenerativeAI, ChatGPT, OpenAI

[Surviving the Reign of AI] 2023.05

As technology progresses, more and more jobs are being taken away by machines due to the nature of automation.

This has almost always been the case ever since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, and has recently been accentuated due to the popularization of AI and machine learning in the realm of information technology.

As of the time of writing, even intellectually sophisticated activities such as fine arts, music, programming, literature, video production, and others are on the verge of being overtaken by the ingenuity of robotic minds. Their qualities are not as yet sufficiently intricate as to be able to replace the majority of highly skilled human professionals, but they do continually improve themselves and their cost-effectiveness is already great enough to undermine the necessity of hiring and training some of the entry-level practitioners.

We are living in an age of endless uncertainty, where no fixed skillset seems to endow an individual with the ability to become a unique part of one's profession by means of serving the role of an irreplaceable expert. As machines successfully take over more and more skills which used to be reserved for mankind before, an individual gets more and more frequently lost in the vast ocean of possibilities, constantly searching for random fragments of knowledge to learn and trying to adapt him/herself to the ever-changing environment. Preserving one's original identity is becoming more of a luxury, and one has no choice but relentlessly keep running on top of a treadmill which is designed to lead nowhere but barely sustain one's role as a parrot of the society's collective consciousness.

Where is individuality in today's world? As technology keeps replacing more and more portions of the pool of human intellect, where should we find a key to unlock a door which will lead us to yet another secret garden of humanity which is yet to be tainted by the tyranny of mechanization?

In order to find out a clue to this fundamental inquiry, we must first contemplate upon the meaning of individual uniqueness in our modern world as well as the problems which have been impairing it, and then try to define the most ideal future scenario to which mankind should aim to propagate itself.

First of all, let us ignore the presence of today's AI technologies for now and investigate the nature of life and society as a whole, for AI is just the tip of an iceberg compared to the overall trend which has already been exhibited by the modern world for centuries. It roughly began with the early Industrial Revolution, and proceeded to illuminate its own presence through the course of globalization.

(Background)

The reason why a person usually wants to be "unique" in one's field of expertise is that it is an indicator of a relatively high degree of competence when it comes to the irreplaceability of one's role as a member of the society. And it used to be far easier (as long as sufficient resources were given) back in the pre-industrial and pre-global era than it is today, due to a reason which I am about to illustrate below.

If you are a sandwich chef in a small village which is isolated from the rest of the world, it can be assumed that it is not so hard for you to stay as the most highly demanded creator of sandwiches in the entire community of people with whom you are interacting on a daily basis. Let's say that there are about ten thousand villagers in total, and let's suppose that they all rely on each other internally for most of their basic needs because there is hardly any direct exchange of resources between the village and the rest of the world. As long as you are the most skilled sandwich chef among these ten thousand villagers, you can assure that you are and will always be the most demanded/loved provider of sandwiches within your local community. You do not need to care if there are other sandwich experts outside of your village who are more competent than you are, since you have your own "homeground advantage" which prevents you from being replaced by those outsiders. Most villagers will rather eat your sandwiches than try to venture outside of the village just to taste other sandwiches which might taste better than yours (The amount of effort it takes to travel is likely to discourage such an endeavor).

Once your village opens itself up and gets engaged in active commerce with the external world, however, everything changes. You are no longer guaranteed to remain as a competent chef because there are probably countless others outside of your village who are better at making sandwiches than you are. Suddenly you find yourself having to compete with not only your ten thousand fellow villagers, but also with billions of strangers living all across the globe.

This is one of the side effects of globalization; you no longer possess the home advantage you used to have back in those days when people's domain of production and consumption was more or less confined to their own local area of residence due to physical limitations. Nowadays we have railroads, freeways, international trade routes, high-speed internet which is capable of selling digital products (intellectual properties) all over the world at the speed of light, and other protocols which connect all of us together more closely than ever, yet also open up the gateway to the eventual widening of the gap between the ones who succeeded in dominating the entire global market and ones who did not. Over time, what is bound to occur is the eventual death of all businesses which fail to become the absolute top performers in their fields of specialization with respect to the whole world. That is, monopoly is expected to take over.

So, what should be a solution to this? We may consider creating our own local communities which are deliberately limited in scope in terms of the way in which they exchange resources, thereby effectively generating "isolated bubbles" which operate in a manner that is similar to those of small medieval kingdoms. However, such a plan is more or less just arbitrary, as it is quite evident that the only method through which a deliberately self-isolating community can promote itself is to appeal to people who want to reinforce their egos by distancing themselves from the rest of the world, as well as to convince them that they ought to choose the particular communities that we are promoting instead of their own.

In order to resolve these tricky issues, we ought to investigate the root of the problem we are facing by means of an example. Let's imagine that you are an artist whose job is to draw concept arts for a living.

(1) Uniqueness

You are an artist who wants to be as unique as possible, since it is the way to ensure that you stay as a demanded individual in the job market. And in order to fulfill this necessity, you constantly try to endow yourself with creative endeavors, for the hope of proving to the rest of the world that you are somebody special - somebody who owns a secret cabinet of sparkling ideas which distinguish themselves from all the rest which are supposedly "boring and less creative". You hate cliché, and assume that anyone who is highly skilled in reproducing the most commercially viable piece of mainstream art are imposters hiding behind an illusion of creativity, as opposed to your "real creativity".

The problem is that, from a purely economic point of view, those who produce cliché are probably the most fitting individuals when it comes to the dynamics of supply and demand (due to the way in which the world of businesses governs itself). Yet it is also true that, if every artist aspires to seek the most optimal method of generating revenue, arts will be dominated by mediocrity.

But sure, there is the world of pure arts which distinguishes itself from the so-called "commercial arts". There are people who are determined to establish and insist upon their own non-mainstream definitions of "creativity", regardless of how the world of business views them. Most of them are hungry artists who hardly manage to make money off of their arts, but a few of them somehow succeed in promoting their own abstract values and achieving some kind of commercial success out of them (possibly with the help of famous acquaintances, bored investors, enormous marketing budget, etc). Even this abstract form of success, however, depends on its own subtle formula which is more or less cliché in terms of being optimized to appeal to a specific class of people in the most efficient way (That is, a class of people who think they are different from others and thus feel the necessity to physically differentiate themselves by buying luxury goods and labelling themselves with fancy keywords).

Therefore, whether it is even possible to become a "unique and creative" individual in today's world which comprises billions of people, the vast majority of whom are able to instantly share their products of ingenuity via a single digital marketplace by means of the internet and social media, is highly questionable.

(2) Practicality

Even if you somehow manage to become a truly unique artist, the problem of commercial viability will forever haunt you. The market does not necessarily reward all types of uniqueness; it only rewards those of specific kinds which are deemed optimal for attracting either a wide range of audiences, or at least a niche audience in a sufficiently competitive fashion (Also, you've got to make them pay). In order to satisfy all these criteria, you must sacrifice part of your uniqueness. This more or less leads to the eventual convergence of creative strategies when it comes to practical business applications.

Yet, some people may persistently exclaim that it is possible to be "creative" while also being pragmatic - perhaps not easy, but not impossible either. And yes, finding a nice little intersection between these two domains of reasoning is something worth a shot, up until the point at which one realizes that there are millions of other people who are thinking in the same exactly way.

The root of the problem lies on the fact that one is trying to do something that others are not doing. Finding such a thing is more or less an illusion in most cases (unless one has recently discovered a brand new field of intellectual endeavors), especially in saturated areas of the industry such as fine arts, music, fiction writing, and game development.

(Corollary)

So, what should be a solution to all this? Will there ever be a way out of this airtight chamber of hopelessness, despite the impression that further competition will hardly be of any use for an ambitious individual except for the purpose of barely keeping up with the status quo?

First of all, when we say that something is "unique", we are essentially saying that it is unique within the context of the whole world. Also when we say that something is "practical", what we are basically saying is that it is practical within the context of the whole world. It all depends on the context, and every qualitative aspect of things is defined in relation to a particular frame of reference rather than being absolutely evaluable on its own.

With this in mind, one can suppose that a fictional context in which a fairly small group of people implicitly agree with one another to share a set of imaginary narratives (i.e. ones which do not pertain to the society's usual "supply and demand" logic) has the potential to revive a tiny isolated community in which the members are endowed with much higher opportunities of becoming unique/useful individuals - that is, a fictional world with its own library of knowledge, its own definition of what is practical or impractical, and so forth.

Such a fictional world will work as a splitting force which draws boundaries upon the surface of our world and lets each of the resulting imaginary regions obtain the privilege to possess its own incontaminable hue. This will prevent the entire universe from plunging into a single point of convergence in terms of innovation, capital, and other characteristics of success, by diversifying the value system in subtle ways.

The problem of how to create an imaginary context, though, is another major challenge to overcome. A fully out-of-reality fiction, such as a fantasy novel, does indeed possess its own artistic value which may even manifest signs of commercial success, yet it is not likely to be taken seriously because it does not pertain to the necessities of our daily life. So what we really need in order to be able to serve the aforementioned purpose is to figure out how to invent a fictional worldview which is only partially detached from reality - that is, a set of narratives that are quite abstract and therefore differentiate themselves from what we directly experience on a daily basis, yet are not so absurd as to let ourselves instantly tell that they are part of an elaborate fiction.

One may say that this mode of reasoning can be interpreted as more or less a "religion", yet my personal persumption is that I should avoid attaching myself to such a fixed vocabulary to describe the concept because such a concise means of explanation is likely to summon a great deal of prejudice and minunderstanding.








:d:An article about indie game prototyping.
:k:Indie, Game, Prototype, Bertrand, Russell, Analysis, Mind, Empiricist, Idealist

[Elements of an Indie Game] 2023.05

When designing an indie game as a solo developer or a member of an extremely small team (e.g. only 2 or 3 people), one often faces a major dilemma which can be described as a chicken-or-the-egg problem. It is a tricky riddle to solve, perhaps trickier than most of the technical problems we encounter every day due to the multidisciplinary nature of game development.

The dilemma begins like this:

Supposed that you are a solo game developer who is trying to design and implement an entire game from scratch. There are typically two approaches you can take to pursue this mission, which I will show below.

(Method 1): Start with the mechanics

You may choose to start your game development journey by first constructing the game's mechanics in order to come up with a solid prototype (i.e. a proof that your game has a potential to succeed). This solution is engineer-friendly, as it allows you to build the skeleton of the game in a highly system-oriented manner.

<005_67>

Everything that the player will ever experience can be described as a network of systems, and each system is nothing more than a set of strictly mathematical relations between its inputs and outputs.

<005_68>

It is oftentimes convenient to design systems as tangible objects. For example, a button is a system because it emits a signal whenever somebody presses it. That is, the act of pressing the button is the system's input and the ensuing signal is the system's output.

In this manner, you may devise quite a multitude of systems which are represented by various interactable objects such as "door", "switch", "light", "platform", "cable", "elevator", "sensor", and so on. Once you fully specify their causal relations, it will be easy for you to join them together to give birth to all sorts of interesting emergent phenomena.

<005_69>

However, this approach soon falls short unless all you want to do is create a purely mechanical sandbox, since a mere assembly of such systems does not necessarily motivate the player to engage him/herself in the game. It is definitely possible to alleviate this problem by simply trying out a huge number of random mixtures among the elements you have made and then cherry-picking only the ones that are sufficiently entertaining, yet this is more or less just a bandage fix rather than a real solution.

It is also possible to attempt to prevent the limitations of your purely mechanical design by introducing systems that are intrinsically motivating. For instance, an enemy character is a system which automatically encourages the player to take a certain set of actions, regardless of where it is placed within the vast network of systems. This will ensure that the player will at least be driven to fight off the enemies no matter how the whole level is designed. Even this kind of solution, however, is not so sustainable because its long-term usage introduces too much repetition to one's gameplay experience and makes the player get tired too easily.

(Method 2): Start with the narratives

Alternatively, you may also begin your journey by constructing the narratives of the game first. Worldbuilding, storytelling, and kindred other means of structuring the game's narrative space are part of this methodology. Unlike the previous method which focused on the dynamics of systems and their causal dependencies, this alternate approach focuses on the set of purposes (volitional elements) and how they are related to one another.

Since everything in the game can be fictional, it is okay for a person to start by simply conceiving an empty world and populating it with a variety of elements such as characters, items, places, and so forth. One can then establish relationships among these elements based upon their inherent characteristics, and proceed to plot their ensuing actions on a timeline in order to formulate a story out of them.

This kind of imaginative endeavor lets the designer keep expanding the game's semantic context, not based on the mechanical aspects of gameplay but rather on its causal fabric of meaning.

Once you come up with characters and their own mental traits such as habits, beliefs, and desires, you will be able to tell what the reactions of these characters are likely to be when they are put under specific scenarios. With this in mind, you will be able to interpolate most of the details of your fictional world by means of induction.

This narrative-driven method, however, reveals its own limitations when it comes to actually implementing the game. A story, for instance, does not automatically fit the interactive nature of gameplay and therefore must be somehow "translated" into a form which makes sense to most gamers. Simply developing a highly story-driven game which forces the player to go through a strictly linear sequence of missions is one valid option to mitigate this, yet such a game is hardly replayable after its initial playthrough unless the gamer is a fan of speedrunning competition.

Unless the story itself is incredibly compelling, therefore, it is usually wise for one to make sure that the underlying narratives of the game world are somewhat compatible with the nonlinear dynamics of gameplay. And this becomes hardly achievable when the designer fails to keep gameplay mechanics in mind when devising the structure of the fictional world and its storyline.

(Problem): Lack of harmony between mechanics and narratives

A major takeaway from the aforementioned two methodologies is that both of them are prone to cause a great split between the two pillars of game development - mechanics and narratives. If we start constructing the game out of the former, we will have a hard time formulating the latter which fits the former. And if we start constructing the game out of the latter, we will have a hard time formulating the former which fits the latter. Our line of reasoning then leads to the third way which is shown below.

(Solution): Start with "mechanical narratives"

If we suppose that a game is made out of basic building blocks, the conclusion we are likely to reach is that such fundamental units of assembly ought to be imbued with the properties of both mechanics and narratives for the sake of integrating both of them into the heart of the game. Otherwise, we will either have to figure out how to define each narrative in terms of a composition of mechanics, or how to define each mechanic in terms of a composition of narratives.

Such multidisciplinary building blocks could be referred to as "mechanical narratives", as they are both mechanical and narrative in nature.

The real challenge of doing this lies on the process of coming up with such intricate fragments of meaning. And my intuition leads me to postulate that the best way to discover them is to identify the most atomic (i.e. indivisible) constituents of the science of life which resides somewhere between the study of biology and the study of psychology.

The reason behind this is that, once a person understands the nature of life, he/she will be able to control the behavior of whichever lifeform the game happens to interact with (aka "player"). This notion applies not only to games, but also other types of media such as books, movies, songs, electronic gadgets, home appliances, and the like.

A major problem we are facing here, though, is that life is such an inexplicably complex phenomenon that we find it nearly impossible to fully depict it in terms of theoreical elements. The thing is, however, that we do not really have to.

The RGB (Red-Green-Blue) color format does not cover the entire spectrum of colors which are recognizable by the human eye, yet it is being used universally as the basis of colors due to the fact that its coverage is satisfactorily broad. Likewise, we do not have to define every single nitpicky detail of life in order to establish a theoretical model of it in a manner that is as sufficiently general as to be considered "universal".

Let us try not to plunge into the endless rabbit hole of rigorous academic studies, and simply focus on the basics of what qualifies a physical object as a "living thing". Here is the question - Why on earth do we say that some objects are animate, while others are inanimate?

First of all, presence of causal relations among physical events does not necessarily distinguish animate objects from those which are inanimate because every physical entity possesses its own rules of interaction with respect to the rest of the world. When a box drops on top of a spring, the spring pushes it upwards to maintain its equilibrium. And when a ball drops on top of a ramp, the ramp lets the ball roll down its angled surface. These are all causal relations.

One might fancy that lifeforms can be distinguished from inanimate objects due to their possession of mental traits such as beliefs, desires, and emotions, yet the legitimacy of this argument is highly questionable.

For example, one can imagine that a mechanical spring "believes" that it must always endeavor to preserve its state of equilibrium (i.e. not being too compressed or too stretched), and that it "desires" to fulfill such a belief by means of an opposing force whenever an external event causes it to be either compressed or stretched. How can we tell for sure that a human being is something more than just an extremely sophisticated spring, despite the notion that one's mind may ultimately be able to be interpreted as a list of purely mechanical relations?