:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-06

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 1] December 6, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 1 - The Beginning)

Once upon a time, there was a game developer living in his mom's basement.

Although it was years after he graduated from a liberal arts college, he still could not manage to find his first job. As a result, he had no choice but follow his childhood dream - that is, making video games for a living.

From now on, we will simply refer to him as "GameDev", for his name is not important for the story.

Months after months, and years after years, he spent all of his time trying to come up with the best video game in the world as a solo developer. He drew his own concept arts, wrote his own backstories, and coded his own scripts for gameplay.

Yet such a prolonged period of solitude was mostly in vain, and he faced constant disillusionment and sheer frustration. His own talent, as well as his feeble struggle to illuminate it, resulted in hardly anything other than a series of howls in empty, heartless space.

It was one sunny day during which he finally discharged his last remaining vestige of masculine indignation.

"This is meaningless!" Exclaimed GameDev, in the midst of his personal Unity license renewal.

He punched a side of his plastic desk. A pair of pennies, an outdated key, and a Papa John's coupon flung themselves across the air and violently hit the floor. He cried.

"This is utterly meaningless! I woke up in the morning just like any other morning. I have, once again, yet another handful of ideas for another indie game. Then what? What is the meaning of this?"

He stood up and wandered in desperation.

"If I devise yet another game and publish it, what difference will it make? There are millions of games being produced by countless experts all over the world, and mine will probably be overlooked anyways. What is the point of such an endeavor, then?

"There are so many talented folks out there - those extroverted 'influencers' who always socialize with ease, work with teams of passionate minds, and never fail to win the heart of the audience. They fill the world of entertainment with the utmost understanding of what everybody wants to see, hear, and feel. Who am I, then, in this Colosseum of bread and circuses?"

He lied down on the cold concrete floor, and gazed at the ceiling. The whole room as dead silent, which enabled him to hear his own resonance of exhaustion in a painfully clear manner.

"Maybe I have been dreaming in my own fantasy, while the real world was something completely different."

Suddenly, a loud thud broke out and interrupted his existential speculation.

GameDev hurriedly rose up, thinking that somebody sneaked into the basement. He looked around to find a nearby stick, just in case of an unwelcome intruder.

"Be not afraid," said a strange voice out of nowhere.

He turned toward the direction of the sound. To his surprise, he saw an enormous pink square hovering amidst thin air, directly facing him. It was a perfect square with neither texture nor any sign of reflection. It simply emitted pure magenta, which was equally bright in every angle.

"Who are you?" Asked GameDev, suspecting that he was hallucinating.

"I am the light of your mind," replied the square. "I am here to help you become a successful game developer."

The square began to move across the room at a constant speed, while keeping its face directly towards GameDev.

Several seconds later, the square hit the wall, bounced back at the angle of reflection without any apparent loss of momentum, and immediately ceased its motion once it came right in front of GameDev.

"First of all, my pronouns are she/her," murmured the square. "But don't get me wrong, I am genderless. The purpose of this is to let the reader easily distinguish between you and I while following the story."

GameDev nodded and said, "Understood. It is a pretty clever idea. I wonder why the author hasn't won a Nobel Prize in Literature yet."

The square continued her speech. "You are tired of this perpetual cycle of hopelessness, aren't you? I am here to save you from this self-inflicted curse of yours. I know you need some guidance regarding the question of your future vocation, which is quite complicated in nature and cannot be summarized by your inner voice alone."

"I agree," admitted GameDev. At this point, he didn't really care whether he was dreaming or whether the square was just a piece of his own imagination; he was desperate enough to seize any string of hope that was handed over to him, and had no luxury to care about its legitimacy.

"That's why I came over to you, from the deepest and most abused organ of your only friend over there," said the square majestically. A floating finger popped out of nowhere and indicated the gaming PC which was located in the darkest corner of the basement.

While making a bouncy pointing gesture, the finger accidentally touched the headphone which was hanging on the chair. The headphone fell to the ground, so the finger grabbed and placed it back to where it was.






:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-07

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 2] December 7, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 2 - The Way)

"Anyway, you get the idea," said the square. "You are trapped in the middle of nowhere, not knowing what to do to make sense of what you are aiming for. You want to become a competent gamedev, yet do not possess any major resource to make that happen. You are left clueless in your own prison of wishful thinking."

"Yes, you are right," GameDev conceded rather painfully. "What should I do, then?"

"Which things have you been trying?" Asked the square.

GameDev replied. "I tried many things, including concept arts, mechanics, lores, plots, dialogues, and many others. Some of them worked out pretty nicely, but the problem is that I am not the only one who makes such attempts."

"You know it very well," answered the square with a light grin. "You know exactly what the problem is. The game industry is saturated. Even if you come up with the most groundbreaking masterpiece, your work will most likely be forgotten."

"I know."

"And people's attention span is shorter than the shortest ruler required to measure the size of your soul."

"What to do, then?" Inquired GameDev.

"Just give up, if you have enough humility to do so," she replied.

"I cannot," he insisted. "It is not that games are my lifelong passion or something; I am way past that sort of juvenile ego. I am unable to forsake my dream not because I am emotionally attached to it, but because there is nothing else I am particularly good at."

The square flickered a couple of times and resumed her voice. "You clearly understand why you are stuck in Limbo. You have a rather abstract goal to which you would like to dedicate your life, but you are not sure if you are approaching it the right way."

She enlarged herself for a brief moment, and then shrank back in size. "Although you haven't mentioned, I know that you are aware of the horror that is visible everywhere. Every morning, you witness yet another technological 'innovation' which promises to render human endeavor obsolete. Meanwhile, more and more people join the party and the heat of competition never calms down because 'making a game' is becoming easier than ever."

The square paused. GameDev tried to think of something to say, yet he failed to do so because her speech was rather dry and uninspiring. What she just said was pretty much what he already had in his mind.

"But," she resumed, "You ought to behold that, while there are a thousand obstacles hindering your way, there are also a thousand keys to unlock your way out. They are all right before your face; you are just too blind to recognize them."

"What do you mean?" Inquired GameDev.

She explained. "Opportunities are everywhere. There are so many, yet most people do not perceive them because they do not see the other side of what they have been facing. This is why the competition never eases itself, nor does it ever change its trajectory; most of its participants only know how to solve a problem in one way, without ever thinking of the possibility that other solutions might exist."

"I know that there are so-called 'hidden opportunities'," said GameDev, "which I take with a grain of salt because most of them are just trendy buzzwords pitched by marketing experts."

"Exactly," said the square with a chuckle. "That is why most people grab false clues and constantly get lured into thinking that they are pioneers of something revolutionary, while all they are doing is simply worship the latest fad and follow it like a herd of clueless sheep."

She continued. "I am speaking of real opportunities, not the phony ones you just mentioned."

"Every salesman talks like that," he responded with a rather explicit form of contempt.

"Unless you are conversing with someone trustworthy, for sure," the square reproached. "I am here not for the purpose of selling anything, but to show you the way."

"What is the 'way' you are talking about?" He inquired suspiciously.

"The way," she answered.

GameDev thought for a couple of seconds and asked, "You mean, the way to become a successful game developer?"

"It's a rhetorical question, isn't it?" She replied. "You know that the 'way' you are searching for is indeed supposed to fulfill your current desire. While there may be multiple ways, we will still be able to treat them as one as long as they all guide you to the same destination."

"How can you tell for sure," interrupted GameDev with a doubt, "that you are able to show me a way which is guaranteed to work? I have made numerous attempts to find one, yet they all turned out to be in vain."

The square moved closer to GameDev and gently whispered. "In order to discover a solution, you must dig deep into the heart of the problem and divine its true nature. And to do that, you must experience every aspect of what makes up a game."

Before GameDev had time to respond, she ascended by a few inches and made a brief humming noise. In a second, the whole basement disappeared and they were both surrounded by a mysterious panorama of colorful lights.







:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-09

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 3] December 9, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 3 - The Amusement Park)

GameDev looked around in surprise, and found out that he was standing in the middle of a small plaza.

"Where are we?" He asked.

"We are in the Amusement Park, the place where only fun and smiles are allowed," answered the square.

He observed his surroundings and saw a carousel, a clown handing over lollipops to children, and a myriad of colorful cabins embellished with cartoon characters and scintillating rainbow orbs. Over the roofs, colossal roller coasters were pouring gushes of joyous scream into the void.

The square shouted with pride. "Don't look so distressed like that. This is the place of pure happiness. You must have fun, and fun only, with a big smile on your face."

GameDev looked away in sheer confusion. On his left, he saw a horde of bumper cars jostling like nervous mice. Their passengers were throwing bouncy beach balls at each other, laughing frantically.

"What is the meaning of this?" He asked.

"You are literally seeing games - lots of games," answered the square proudly. "Look at the Ferris wheel over there, the pirate ship over here, and the spooky ghost house right behind you! Every ride you see here is a game you can enjoy."

"Games are supposed to be interactive," insisted GameDev.

"Are they?" she responded with a grin. "Or is it merely an illusion of interactivity you are talking about? People play games not to interact, but to see what they want to see."

GameDev disagreed. "A game still needs to involve interactions in order to let people choose what they want."

Upon hearing this, the square mused for a bit. There was a round of fireworks going on over the Amusement Park's iconic castle. Once their thunderous claps were dispersed, she spoke up again.

"A decent game gives the audience free will. A competent game gives the audience what they want for free. Remember that convenience trumps hard-earned happiness; one's freedom of choice is nothing more than a moral fantasy as long as one is not willing to choose."

"What do you mean?" GameDev asked.

She moved forward and continued to speak. "Being able to make decisions is indeed an alleged virtue of those who feign their intellect. Yet when it comes to choosing between an easy treat and a hard treat, the vast majority will pick the easy one. And the best game is one which promises to feed you spoonfuls of sugar without forcing you to think."

"It won't work in the long run," said GameDev. "People are smart enough to discern such a condescending type of psychological exploitation."

"Oh, you have no idea," exclaimed the square. "In the world flooded with countless games, only a few which fulfill the player's gluttony in the most embarrassingly blatant manner will win the race."

She moved aside to let him watch his surroundings once again. There were various rides all over the Amusement Park, all busily undertaking their soulless mechanical movements to entertain their visitors. Their perpetual clockwork ceaselessly inhaled and exhaled waves of people. This left GameDev dumbfounded.

"Every one of these rides is a game chosen by the crowd," said the square melancholically. "It does not matter whether these rides are simply repeating the same old ritual; people chose to ride them anyways, and your definition of what a game is supposed to be has no voice here."

GameDev tried to say something cynical in response to her speech. While he was about to do so, however, he saw a child tapping a gigantic red button to crack open a piñata which was placed right before an automatic slapstick. He became pensive.

After a minute or so, a sudden flash of wit crossed his mind. "Although focusing on the player's utmost desire is indeed an effective means of selling the game," he suggested, "such a method quickly gets old. Besides, since so many games are taking such a route, coming up with yet another silly ride is hardly going to make any profit unless it is aided by an enormous marketing budget."

"The majority's voice is always right," mumbled the square, "when it comes to popularity. You may fancy that novelty is a hidden path to success, but from a statistical point of view, nothing beats mediocrity. The average is the average for a reason."

"But competing will be too hard unless I try something different," he protested.

She responded grimly. "The size of your potential audience will surmount the weight of such a drawback. You may invent something revolutionary and write a whole new page of history out of its legacy, but the fate of a rebel is lifelong ridicule. It all boils down to the matter of chance. You are very likely to fail if you do not follow the norm."

GameDev interrupted. "Is this the only advice you can give to me?"

"No," answered the square. "I am not done yet. These 'games' you have seen so far indeed reveal part of the truth, yet they do not represent the entirety of it. I will show you that there are more things going on behind the stage."

She moved away a bit and made another humming noise.







:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-13

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 4] December 13, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 4 - The Great Sandbox)

In a moment, the colorful sources of light disappeared and left both the square and GameDev imprisoned in utter darkness. After a few seconds, the whole scene rapidly transitioned into that of a desolate wasteland, resembling that of an interstate freeway in Nevada.

GameDev looked around, perplexed. They were no longer in the middle of the Amusement Park. Instead, they were both standing upon a vast desert plain of a flat and endless horizon, vividly lit by the yellow Sun.

"What is this place?" He asked.

"This is the Great Sandbox, the infinite playground in which you are free to do anything we want," answered the square in a jovial tone.

GameDev walked a few steps forward, and found out that the ground was a massive heap of fine sand. There was not even a single distinguishable object in the area.

The square continued. "This is the land of boundless opportunities, and you are playing the ultimate game of creation here. As the god of this world, you are free to build, manipulate, and destroy everything. Say any word, and it will come alive."

With a bit of doubt, GameDev whispered the word "castle". Suddenly, a huge sandstorm summoned itself out of nowhere, devoured a mound of sand nearby, and turned itself into a colossal castle which resembled that of the Disney Logo.

"What the-?" He stuttered.

"Yes, you have that power," responded the square proudly. "You are the king of infinite space, and the only bottleneck of your creativity is the limit of your own imagination."

GameDev, out of curiosity, uttered a few other words which happened to cross his mind. A forest of grotesque-looking rainbow trees populated the field of ghostly loneliness, and a fountain of a Greco-Roman motif brewed itself out of a dry hill. Angelic figures appeared out of the blue and began to partake in aerial movements, while large exotic animals crawled out of a boiling green river which crossed the castle in a rather sophisticated way.

"What is the point of all this?" Asked GameDev, profoundly puzzled.

"Why, you are the one who made these decisions," returned the square triumphantly. "Admire your own creations which filled up the vacuum of this deserted world, and enjoy your time observing their intriguing behaviors. The whole universe is yours."

GameDev approached the stone temple which was raised in front of him, and touched one of its porcelain ornaments.

Suddenly, every single creation, including the temple, the fountain, trees, angelic figures, animals, the castle, and countless others, collapsed into mere piles of colored sand. He couldn't do anything but simply stand where he was, tossing a somber glance upon the heartless destruction which embraced him.

"Not in this manner, no," he insisted. "Although I am free to interact in whichever way I desire, this place is utterly emotionless and there is nothing motivating me to exercise my freedom. This desert is hopelessly devoid of meaning, and my infinite power is of no use here."

"Isn't the goal of play fulfilled as long as there are choices given?" She asked.

GameDev replied. "Only meaningful choices count. They ought to push me to either success or failure depending on which one I pick, and whether I succeed or not should be of some value to me."

"What value?" She inquired, rather rhetorically.

"It must be a value which originates from some kind of secret," answered GameDev. "There must be some unknown treasure hidden behind the scene - something so precious, that I cannot help myself but strive to know more of it, despite myriads of painful yet courageous endeavors which must be undertaken. If I already know everything, no discovery will be meaningful."

"Why should there be a secret?" Questioned the square.

He thought for a second and resumed his argument. "It is because whenever there is something unknown, I gain an opportunity to suspect that it is a threat which may harm me if I do not take precautions against it. Not knowing everything means having something to fear. And as long as there is something to fear, I will stay motivated to take every necessary action to know more about it, so as to be able to learn how to protect myself from it."

The square followed the direction of the wind for a moment and stopped all of a sudden. She returned to her original spot and said, "So, your choice of action is meaningless unless it pertains to your survival instinct, huh? And the best way to guarantee it is to surround yourself with invisible hazards."

"Yes, exactly," he answered.

She pondered a bit and then continued to speak. "Very well. But it sounds to me that, if you were to design your own game, you would want your audience to worship your narratives based upon fear."

"No," interrupted GameDev. "Although fear may play a part, it is the sense of mystery itself which does the magic because it is where all sorts of wonderful imaginations come into being."

"It makes sense," murmured the square. "I will then show you the vision you just described."

She lifted herself a bit and made a rapid sequence of chirps.







:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-14

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 5] December 14, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 5 - The Haunted House)

Once again, there came a rather bizarre sort of change in the environment. A loud storm enveloped the entire dome of the skyscape and rapidly revolved what seemed to be the whole celestial body veiled by the lucidity of daylight.

After a short blink of time, the wind calmed down and both GameDev and the square were in a wide living room made out of old grayish wood. It was quiet and dark, and only the slight glimpse of moonlight gave visual cues to the interior of the area.

"Are we in a mansion?" GameDev inquired.

The square gave a gentle answer. "Close. This is the Haunted House, and I can confidently say that you and I are standing inside the most mysterious place in the world."

GameDev waited a while to let his eyes adjust themselves to the unprecedented darkness. Then, he closely inspected the space around him. There was a cold, ashy fireplace amidst the central recess of the house, besides a dusty bookshelf, a table with an oil lamp, and a partially burnt brick column.

Before he could ask her what was so mysterious about it, a coffin-like cabinet behind him opened up and emitted an intense beam of green light.

A puff of yellow smoke came out of its greenish flame and turned into a semi-translucent skull. It revolved for about 7 times in rapid succession, faced GameDev directly, and cried:

"Beware! When the planets are aligned and the crescent moon shatters into three quarters, you will drink the blood of my long-deceased ancestors."

Then the skull turned into an enormous blob of purple slime, rapidly grew itself to fill the entire house with scintillating purple light, and disappeared immediately.

"What does this mean?" GameDev asked. He was irritated by his own confusion.

"Oh, it is up to you to figure out," she replied. "This abandoned site is the den of countless unknown beings. Some call them 'ghosts', while others refer to them as extraterrestrial demons from another dimension. We have never found out the cause of the supernatural phenomena which have been occurring here."

As soon as she finished her last sentence, the fireplace made an explosive sound and began to vomit swarms of light-emitting butterflies. Their wings were made of real butter.

"Is this..?" Inquired GameDev in a suspicious tone.

"Yes, this is another paranormal activity - purely mysterious, exotic, and unknowable," answered the square.

Before there was any time for further investigation, the whole house abruptly dismantled into oblivion. The walls disappeared, the floor disappeared, and both the square and GameDev found themselves hovering in the midst of empty space. Only stars and distant galaxies filled up their surroundings.

"Are we-" He tried to ask, but a loud vibratory noise interrupted him.

They were zooming towards a gigantic red star, which quickly transformed into a ring of fire. At the center of the ring were three green eyes, all staring at the two visitors in a fierce manner.

"Okay, this is just completely random and meaningless," he uttered rather contemptuously. "I keep seeing strange things, but they do not mean anything to me."

"Think of it as a game," replied the square. "You are here to solve a complex puzzle, filled with wonders that are hard to grasp but can potentially show you a whole new treasure box of discoveries. Just be patient, and you will find out."

"If this is a game, I will say that it is an exceptionally lame one," he murmured bitterly. "The experience I am having right now is indeed saturated with mysteries, yet they do not mean anything to me because they have failed to show me why I must be interested in them."

She beamed a light smile and said, "You are thinking too deeply. Most people who play games do not try to reason with what they see. They simply want to have fun, and the feeling of cluelessness is one sugary ingredient to spice up such a purpose."

GameDev rejected her claim. "No, I don't think a random mixture of bizarre images is all it takes to get people's attention. The audience is smart enough to discern such a lazy trick, as it is so obvious that its goal is to hide the game's lack of design."

"No one wants to see any genuine hint of intricacy," said the square. "What a gamer wants to see is a proof that the world is so helplessly random and out of place, that no educated worldview should be preferred over a less educated one. You better not ruin this shared fantasy in which one's shortage of intellect is taken not as a room for improvement, but as a mere difference in taste."

She then raised herself a bit and whistled. The Haunted House came back to where they were and once again enclosed them under the shadow of darkness, although those three annoying eyes were still gazing at them through the window, occasionally eye-rolling to express their passive aggression.

"I do understand what you mean, though," said the square solemnly. She moved about in a rather nervous fashion and resumed her line of speech. "I will show you something else which you might be interested in."

She shuddered a bit. A wave of mist came over and wrapped both of them in silence.







:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-16

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 6] December 16, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 6 - The Laboratory of Intellects)

After the mist was gone, GameDev saw that they were no longer in the house. Instead, they were inside a vast hallway with a great number of classical mahogany doors in it.

"We are in the Laboratory of Intellects," explained the square. "This is where all sorts of exciting academic experiments take place."

There were quite a considerable number of people moving from door to door, all wearing black gowns and wearing square hats.

She continued to describe what they were seeing. "Each door leads to a small office room, in which a unique interdisciplinary research is going on. Come here, and let us enter room 105; this is where a team of bright minds are investigating a new, revolutionary way of developing a game."

GameDev followed her guidance. As they entered the room, they were confronted by a couple of large whiteboards filled with numerous mathematical formulas and diagrams. Over these scholastic barricades were several desks, where there were about four researchers rapidly skimming through a pile of engineering books.

One of them, noticing the square's presence, stood up and welcomed her with a courteous greeting. Then, after conversing a bit, the researcher faced GameDev and spoke.

"Hello, I am glad to see you. We are a group of scientists who have been undertaking a mission to invent a whole new genre of serious games, which will defy the age-old prejudice that a game is nothing more than just a piece of entertainment," said the researcher with a great deal of enthusiasm.

"I agree," said GameDev. "May I hear more about it?"

"Oh, sure. We are currently investigating a new method of redefining the very conception of what a game is. We have found out that, in order to do so, we must design the entire game based upon a strictly mathematical model of our natural environment which can be derived from physics, chemistry, biology, and other academic disciplines."

"Interesting," he pondered. "What kind of model would that be?"

"It is essentially a graph-based automaton which simulates our planet's ecosystem, in which each vertex represents the population of a species and each directed edge represents the probability that a predator will consume its prey at each time step. The system's feedback loop is controlled by a series of bio-rhythms with their own adjustable coefficients, each of which is a temporal sinusoid with its own unique frequency. They play a crucial role when it comes to simulating the environmental effects of the day/night cycle, seasons, and other phenomena which would've been a nightmare to implement if we were to map them into abstract data objects and their real-time spatial relations."

"Okay."

"But of course, this is the internal mechanism. The player will simply observe the ecosystem by means of a top-down 3D view of the planet, which will only render the overall contour of the globe as long as the camera is sufficiently far away from the surface. As the camera zooms in, our procedural content generator will select terrain patches which intersect with the player's FOV and populate them on the fly using a coordinate-based random seed as well as the current state of the ecosystem. The latter will be used to deterministically populate each patch by instancing procedurally generated 3D animal/plant meshes. This way, the player will be able to look up any region of the planet and still confirm that it appropriately reflects the overall stochastic distribution of the species."

"Sounds interesting."

After the conversation was over, GameDev politely yet silently walked out of the room and sat down on a bench which was located next to the hallway's central palm garden.

"Did it inspire you?" Asked the square.

He muttered. "No. Although their theory does involve intriguing details, I don't think that it will stand out in the gaming market."

"Why do you think so?" She queried. "Don't you see that their plan is thoroughly logical and elaborate?"

He stood up and began to roam. "I agree with your point," he spoke with bitterness. "These guys are unfathomably smart and I know it. However, their intellect hardly applies outside of their own prison of sophistry, as far as gaming is concerned."

The square came closer to him and chortled ironically.

"So, you don't believe that creating an intelligent system and making a game out of it is not good?" She questioned.

GameDev stopped walking and faced her directly. "I do believe that a game must be designed intelligently, and ought to be more self-consistent than a mere cesspool of random puzzle pieces which do not even fit together. But a system made out of pure logic alone is not going to work either, since it is utterly soulless!"

"What do you prefer, then?" She inquired.

He answered. "A game must possess not only solid mechanics, but also solid narratives. It must touch the heart of one's emotions in order to give meaning to the whole story. A system of logic alone cannot fulfill this unignorable goal."

As soon as he finished talking, another wave of mist came over and veiled everything.










:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-18

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 7] December 18, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 7 - The Cave of Enlightenment)

The mist illuminated itself in strange ways, first in cyan, then in magenta, and then finally in yellow. A brief interval passed by and the mist went out of sight all of a sudden. Both the square and GameDev were immured in inexplicable darkness.

"Is there light somewhere?" GameDev asked. Within a few seconds, however, his inquiry was answered by an abrupt ignition of a long row of torches on the wall. He looked around and realized that they were standing in a small cave.

"Okay, what are you going to show me this time?" He asked in a suspicious tone.

Instead of directly answering him, the square simply said, "Just observe where you are and behold what it tries to show you."

He made his eyes scan the curved stone walls and soon noticed that they were decorated with colorful graffiti, which mostly consisted of motivational quotes as well as portraits of bearded indie musicians.

Suddenly, a band of hairy men entered the place via one of the tiny holes on the floor, and sat down near GameDev as though they were close friends.

"Visitors!" One of them shouted jovially.

GameDev hesitated for a moment, but decided to greet them. He said, "Hi, I'm GameDev. Who are you?"

The strange man got awkwardly close to him and spoke. "We are cave-dwellers. We have been living in this sacred womb of spiritual ascension since time immemorial. I am so glad that you are here to join in, and let us share messages from higher dimensions with you."

GameDev asked, "What do you mean?"

One of the man's companions rose up and discharged his words of passion. "We have been searching for eternal bliss, and so should you. We are all part of this grand journey, which is made out of pure love and everybody is promised to be saved from sorrow."

Before more conversation could take place, all of these strange men evaporated themselves in a surreal manner. They became what one would refer to as amorphous blobs of glistening vapor. Shortly after, they merged into a single mechanical gadget which resembled a hookah. It emitted an enormous puff of rainbow smoke, which rapidly filled the entire cave.

GameDev felt intoxicated. He found himself dancing amidst a flowery garden, embraced by a plethora of beautiful phantoms which looked like fairies.

A panorama of emotional upheavals swept across him. He recalled the most piercing memories of childhood, which brutally dismantled his system of rational worldview. By the force of some inexplicable divinity which occupied his heart, he was impelled to contemplate upon the most embarrassing parts of himself.

Then, a sequence of wondrous visual blossoms unfolded before his eyes, and displayed a landscape of euphoria which cast light on his faint seed of hope. He cried with rapture, feeling a vivid yet unspeakable form of joy he had never experienced before.

And all of a sudden, everything was over. The garden was gone, the smoke was gone, and even the hookah-like device was gone. Only he and the square were left in the cave.

After recovering his senses, GameDev asked her, "What just happened?"

"You were playing a game," answered the square. "It was not an ordinary game, but more of a purely emotional experience."

"I just had an uplifting moment," he replied gravely. "It was tearfully charming. But here I am, once again back to the unforgiving stake of reality."

"It definitely touched your heart, did it not?" She questioned.

"Oh, it indeed squeezed the last drop of passion from my heart, for sure," he murmured bitterly. "It was such an ecstatic vision. However, I also realized that the pleasure I had was nothing but vapor, only meant to stay for a glimpse of imagination and disappear as soon as the dream goes away."

"Why so serious?" Insisted the square. "It was just a game, and since it pleased you while you were playing it, the purpose was served."

GameDev faced her and said, "It is utterly devoid of real values because the joy it bestows on me is irreproducible elsewhere."

He paused for a moment and continued. "And those cave-dwellers are clueless; they are just worshippers of mere hallucination."

"Interesting observation," she commented ironically. "But are you sure that other people will agree with you? In the world of professional attention-seekers, one cannot simply deny that there are reasons why the majority prefers caramel over oats."

"I don't deny the virtue of immediate satisfaction," he responded in disgust. "I just believe that a game should contain something solid - I mean, some kind of story, or lore, which persists beyond a mere state of emotional tantrum."

The square asked curiously. "What you are demanding is a fictional world which exists on its own. Can you assure that building such a world is worth the effort, that people will pay attention to it if it is rich in context?"

"Yes, I can assure," he said.

She flickered a couple of times, temporarily changed her color to pure green, and resumed her original appearance. An earthquake shook the entire cavern, destroying everything.






:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-19

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 8] December 19, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 8 - The Fantasy Forest)

GameDev was overwhelmed by the ensuing rain of gravel, so he passed out.

After an unknown length of time, he opened his eyes again and found out that the square was still in front of him. He stood up on his feet and looked around; they were in a forest.

"This is the Fantasy Forest, a fictional world which contains its own history, culture, and countless other intricate settings," explained the square proudly.

She summoned a floating finger and pointed to her left, upon which there was an entrance to a monorail. "Come, let us ride this to explore the place around us," she said.

The cart on the rail began to move swiftly as soon as GameDev got on. As soon as it climbed up the greatly tilted portion of the track, he started to see various details of the forest. He saw small rivers, lakes, ravines, swamps, and meadows, as well as manmade structures such as castles of various shapes, half-demolished fortresses, and huts.

The square placed herself right behind his back and explained. "Look at those flags. Each flag denotes the center of each region in this fictional territory. That red flag over there is the center of the region of Agrifacus-Hermanglia, which is dwelled by mermaids who obtained their air-breathing ability from the deities of the middle lake of Ethereandum as a consequence of the battle of Aeosaliphia in 30447 BC."

GameDev looked back at her and raised his eyebrows.

She continued. "Look! There is the dark purple flag with a golden insignia over there, right next to Mount Triple-Raindeer. It is the region of Clandescenglica, founded by the magical mushroom-eating dwarfs of West Gloecendules who achieved independence from the kingdom of Deliclausium back in 11240 BC, after the infamous 3 years of worldwide purge caused by their secret ploys to overthrow the throne of Queen Tessendronomia VI, who was one of the 7 divine rulers of the Southeast province of Gallenbrimeleum."

"Okay, that's enough!" Exclaimed GameDev.

"What is the matter?"

He faced her and uttered his frustration. "You are throwing a bunch of useless details on me. What is the point of these historical lessons which I won't be able to memorize anyways?"

"What I have been telling you is the backstory of the vast universe you must be acquainted with in order to appreciate the game which is built on top of it," she reproached. "We are travelling inside the world of one of the most popular MMORPGs of all time. Millions of fans are already analyzing and expanding the rich history of this collaborative fiction, in their web forums, chat rooms, and even offline yoga clubs."

He thought for a second and showed his disagreement. "That's probably because the game is already popular. I am an indie developer; complex worldbuilding won't help me at all because people will simply regard mine as a word salad."

"Make fans, then," she replied.

"I can't because I do not have sufficient resources to get the audience hooked," he said. "No marketing budget at all! If I were a celebrity, there would've been fans willing to dig out all sorts of hidden meanings from even the most obscure of the poems I happen to ejaculate. But since I am nobody, no one will even bother to entertain the notion that any of my work might be something worth looking at."

She turned off the cart's engine to mute its ambient noise.

She then got closer to GameDev and whispered. "This is why you need to come up with a highly sophisticated fictional world first. It is the everlasting place to which your future fans will be able to stick their heart. In order to win their love, you've got to build a cultural entity which lasts outside of the game itself. Isn't it what you suggested when we visited the cave?"

He turned his face away from her and said, "Those manifold things you've mentioned have no meaning. Or, maybe they do, but they are not important to me anyways because I do not see why knowing them will help me live a better life."

"So, you believe that practical use cases are a necessary precondition of interest?" She asked.

"Yes, I do," he admitted. "People need to be convinced that the things they are meant to see will benefit them."

"Good point," she conceded. "But how will you convince them?"

GameDev became silent. There were quite a multitude of potential answers, yet he was not sure which one would apply to games.

"Gamers typically follow their instincts," explained the square, "which are vastly prehistoric in nature. Before they are sophisticated social beings, they are hunter-gatherers clamoring to collect resources, expand their territories, reproduce, and secure their belongings. It is why RPGs and survival games are prone to attract large audiences."

"I agree."

"However, you cannot just focus on the idea of instinct alone. There must be something feasible, such as food, gold, pitfall, and the like, which will activate the player's latent instincts. And they must come in a variety, for otherwise the game will be too repetitive."







:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-22

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 9] December 22, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 9 - The Money Club)

Upon hearing her advice, GameDev mused in profound speculation. As far as he could tell, she was pretty much spot on.

The square continued. "If the game's worldview is too simple, it will be mundane. If it is too complex, it will be confusing. This is the pattern you have probably noticed."

She then raised herself above the seat and vibrated a bit. The entire forest disappeared and was replaced by a clean lounge which resembled an arcade.

GameDev observed their new surroundings. The entrance of the lounge had a large revolving door, above which was a neon sign which said, "The Money Club."

"Money Club? Is this a place for business?" He asked.

She nodded with a smile. "Close. This is a gaming arena where every participant gets a chance to earn real money while playing."

He looked around to see what was going on. There were groups of wide circular tables filling up the whole area, occupied by shimmering electronic toys. A huge crowd of people were playing them with tokens, cards, plastic gems, and other colorful pieces, while also devouring candies that were handed out as intermediary rewards.

He walked towards one of the tables and watched closely. The main body of the machine had a graphical depiction of a pile of gold coins with a woman in red bikini on top of it. Occasionally, a loud clapping sound burst out of its central statue which looked like a cartoony personification of a treasure box. Each time a fiery fanfare enraptured the air, a slit on the side of the toy dispensed a handful of dollar coins.

GameDev glanced at the square and asked, "How is this different from gambling?"

"It is not," she answered.

He peeped into one of the translucent chambers of the glittering device. It was occupied by several dice, rapidly being cast in random directions due to the presence of pneumatic forces. Every time they came to rest, a bell rang and a circular billboard of LED lights displayed a visual hint of how awesome the player's latest choice was.

"This is just a soulless garbage, designed to exploit the gullible," he exclaimed in disgust.

"Hush, you are offending those who simply want some goal to pursue!" She interrupted in embarrassment.

She moved in front of GameDev's face and continued. "When a fictional world of too large a scale is deemed too complex by the eyes of the unacquainted, all we are left with is the belief that money is the ultimate virtue. It is the only type of reward which is simple enough to comprehend yet infinitely expandable in meaning."

He began to wander slowly in the open area of the lounge, feeling the muddy carpet with his feet. Her argument was sound, and he could not refute it.

"Contextual richness sprouts from one's own imagination," she moved on. "Money shows more visions than any list of goods it can buy. It is the only solution to resolve our dilemma between monotony and complexity. You just throw money at people, and they will fancy whatever they can afford with it; they are the little prince who will be content with an empty box."

A thought struck GameDev's mind. He faced her and said, "Attracting people with financial opportunities may work out effectively, but it is only when the game is already popular. I don't think anyone will trust an unknown indie game which promises any kind of monetary gain; they will simply dismiss it as a scam."

The square giggled. "So, it seems that your main concern is the difficulty in establishing the initial fan base."

She moved back and forth a couple of times, resumed her idleness, and continued. "You believe that the range of methods you can harness to overcome this bottleneck is too narrow, and you have no clue where to find that tiny hole of glory through which you will see the light of day."

He had no choice but acknowledge the sheer accuracy of her exposition.

"I see what you mean," he muttered in frustration. "All I need is fame, then. That pretty much sums it up."

He became speechless, realizing that the only thing he could do was to let his eyes wander from table to table. Loud mechanical melodies and joyous laughters thundered the colossal factory of fabricated peace in which he stood, overshadowing the solemnity of his inner desolation.

Was the world shaped in a way in which he wasn't even meant to be invited to the party in the first place? Was his silent maneuver nothing but a blind assortment of gesticulations to push his ego upward, just to hit the brick ceiling of the world's preset expectations?

"The best way to figure out how to obtain fame," whispered the square, "is to learn by examples."

She flew away from GameDev a bit and expanded herself indefinitely. One of the sides of the room became an overwhelming wall of magenta, rendering a monotonic cross section of the space. It then marched forward, gradually engulfing the Money Club up until the point at which it completely annihilated his view.

Her voice spoke. "When you are clueless, remember that observation is the fountain of reason."







:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-24

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 10] December 24, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 10 - The Temple of Fame)

The veil of magenta disappeared, and GameDev once again saw the square in front of his eyes. She fully resumed her original shape.

However, they were now in a different place which was reminiscent of the interior of a cathedral. The high dome-like ceiling filled the air with a sonorous touch of sound, and the wide marble floor intermittently rang bouncy echoes.

The entire hall was enclosed by a circular stony wall which was furnished with antique mouldings. The wall comprised 12 sections, each of which was occupied by a gigantic bronze statue of a bearded old man, surrounded by a podium and a semicircular arrangement of wooden benches.

"This is the Temple of Fame," said the square. "We are standing in the memorial of the twelve most honorable game industry veterans."

"Why are you calling them 'veterans'?" He asked.

"Because they are the ones who fought their sacred wars to turn themselves into celebrities. They are the legendary figures in the history of video games, and every aspiring developer must strive to be like them if they want to be famous, too," she answered.

GameDev walked towards one of the statues and watched it closely. Its frontal podium was occupied by a pastor who kept preaching the greatness of the idol behind him in front of a group of people. The listeners fervently copied the man's words with their busy note-taking hands.

The pastor spoke in a solemn voice:

"... This legendary man, both a creative team leader and an innovative game designer, was born in 1955. Shortly after he graduated from high school, he founded his first game company inside his private garage in California with the aid of his friends and their rich parents, thus laying down the foundation of some of today's most popular video game franchises. Without him, all of us would've still been playing chess, condemned to the state of eternal boredom ..."

The speech continued.

"... We must all pray for his everlasting glory, for he is the unquestionable genius of all time. He was the one who built everything from scratch, and let all future generations of game developers take him as their role model and receive inspirations from him. His legacy is timeless, and his teachings apply to our daily lives more than ever ..."

GameDev turned his head away and expressed his frustration. "I don't think there is anything I will learn from this man. He was apparently very privileged to be born in the right time and place, and the game industry offered far more opportunities back when he was young. How on earth will his words of wisdom ever apply to today's lost souls?"

"Because he is a celebrity, that is why," she replied.

"That doesn't prove that it is worthwhile to copy his life."

"You don't have to copy him," she explained. "You just need to present the audience with the impression that you are connected with him, so that those who worship him will worship you, too."

"You mean to say..."

"Yes, be a parrot who echoes the words of this legendary figure like a loyal disciple, and people will love you for fitting yourself in their narratives."

GameDev looked unconvinced. So she made an additional comment. "This man is not only a game developer and a business owner, but also a highly influential lecturer who travels across the entire nation and delivers his holy lectures to our top-tier universities as well as other 'authentic' institutions. The number of his supporters is far more than the number of stars in the heaven."

He thought for a moment, and said, "I will not take advantage of his fame like a parasite; I am an independent developer, and I reject the notion of blind reverence."

"Then you cannot truly succeed in this world of beasty appetite," returned she. "Once you decide to go alone, you fall from the lofty floor of companionship."

"I do not necessarily favor solitude. The problem with careless friendship is that it feeds upon the lowest common denominator. I may sound elitist, but the daily impression of mine is that the vast majority of sociable folks I see everywhere are helplessly shallow, pretentious, and callous," muttered GameDev.

She moved back and forth to give herself a bit of time to muse. Then she resumed her original spot and said, "Whether you are okay with the risk of being a lone wolf or not, you cannot win the heart of the public while being so selective like that."

"You are asking me to change my very own nature."

"You do not have to change yours; all you have to do is fake it. The trick is to make a sound compromise between your inner and outer selves."

The square shook herself slightly to emphasize her point, and moved aside to let him observe the scene of the temple once again.

He gazed at the sunlit surface of the magnificent bronze statue, blazing in the intricate play of light which descended from the heaven through the dome's central hole. The chubby figurine smiled in bliss, waving its hand toward the spectators like a selfless philanthropist.







:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-26

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 11] December 26, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 11 - The Museum of Everything)

GameDev looked back at the square. She gently kept floating in midair, waiting for his response.

"I am not buying your narrative," he insisted. "I know that I am unable to find a decent alternative to the solution you just presented, but that doesn't mean that it is a good one."

She got closer to him and rebuked. "Does your judgement matter, though? You have been searching for a solution, and if there is only one which is proven to work, you have no choice but submit yourself to it. Don't be a slave of your illusion of creativity."

"I raise my doubt not on the basis of my ego, but on the basis of the fact that following the majority's path will simply put me in an endless rat race," he opposed stubbornly.

"What is your alternative, then?" Asked the square.

He spent a few minutes trying to come up with a way to brand himself as a man of steel, capable of creating his own library of values without relying on the voice of the world's already established heroes (He preferred to call it "psychological entrepreneurship"). Such an attempt was so inexplicably vast in scale, though, that he could not save himself from being lost in his tangled string of reason.

Noticing GameDev's internal desperation, she resumed her speech. "Okay. I will show you the place in which you can see the virtue of becoming a creative individual who solely harnesses one's own skillset for pure win, without borrowing the power of any authority whatsoever."

She made a few chirps.

The circular hall morphed itself into another architectural masterpiece which was somewhat similar to but still distinguished from the previous one.

They were now in a long lobby of a large public exhibition area, which had a great number of entries to its individual showrooms.

"We are in the Museum of Everything. This is where we can find anything we can possibly imagine," she explained.

They entered the closest entrance to see what was inside. As soon as GameDev entered the room, he realized that he was standing in front of an infinite array of brightly lit glass cages, each of which contained a unique three-dimensional object in it.

"What is this place? It looks like this area is infinite in size; I cannot even see the walls, except a faint horizon which seems immesurably far away from us!" He exclaimed.

"It is because we are in an infinitely wide room," she answered calmly. "Behold each of these intricate sculptures; what you are seeing is the ultimate collection of all three-dimensional forms that can possibly exist in space."

He looked puzzled, so the square led him to the entrance of another room which was also infinite in size.

This new room was filled with an endless array of partition walls, each of which was filled with a group of colorful canvases.

She explained. "This is the ultimate ensemble of all pictures you will ever be able to draw in your mind. Mona Lisa, The Birth of Venus, The Scream - they are all here, somewhere among these countless pieces. You just can't find them right away because there are so many."

"Why are you showing these to me?" He asked.

"It is to show you that the world is already brimming with masterpieces," she replied. "Your talent has no meaning in this ocean of perfection, and every strain of your personal effort is a mere howl against an empty wall."

"You are making me feel wretched," said GameDev, grumbling outside but crying inside.

"Let us visit the third room, which is filled with every piece of literature you will ever be able to read," she whispered.

He knelt down and spoke in sheer bitterness. "No, I have seen enough. Everything I have ever dreamed of inventing has already been invented, And no matter what I do, I am and will always be an utterly insignificant little rat. The world is way too large to make anyone special, and every bit of individuality is but a speck of dust in the vast pool of proud talent."

"Do not despair," she said. "There is no reason to raise sorrow over mere observation. You are miserable simply because you assume that being a rare gem is a requirement for becoming a successful game developer."

"Without uniqueness, what remains?" He cried.

The square leaned over and gently said, "Familiarity."

Noticing that GameDev was perplexed by this one-word answer, she began to explain. "No matter how big and saturated our world is, people stick to what they are familiar with, and build intimate relationships with it. A person loves a game with which she spent her childhood, not because it is 'special' in any objective manner, but because it occupies an irreplaceable portion of her past."

She took a deep breath and continued. "The key to unlock someone's heart is to keep showing that you care about the person. And the way to give life to this unbreakable chain of intimacy is constant dedication. Make a game which is enjoyable, and keep tending it like a rose with its own birthright. It will then be 'special' in the eyes of your audience."








:d:A fictional adventure story of an indie game developer.
:k:Fiction, Novel, Game Developer, Indie Game, GameDev, Game Design, Game Engine, Gameplay Engineer, Game Artist, Game Mechanics, Videogame, Computer game, Game Marketing
:l:2023-12-29

[A Game Developer's Journey - Chapter 12] December 29, 2023

<001>

(Chapter 12 - The End)

The square extended her four edges indefinitely while also aligning herself perpendicularly to GameDev's direction of view. This filled his vision with pure magenta, equally bright everywhere.

And all of a sudden, this all-encompassing curtain of light went out of his sight.

He realized that he was back in his basement again, which was occupied by a folding plastic table, a gaming PC, a couple of office chairs, an empty can of energy drink, and a moldy pizza box - just as they were by the time he departed the room for his private journey.

"Oh well, it was just a bizarre dream," he murmured. He then proceeded to sweep aside some of the litter that was sitting on the floor.

"Yes it was," whispered a familiar voice.

GameDev jumped out of his skin and turned his head to see what was behind him. It was the square, the perfectly axis-aligned pink square, quietly gazing him in his eyes.

"You are still here?" He asked, genuinely surprised.

"Sure I am," she replied. "I am part of you, and the things which I have been showing you are what you already had in your mind when I revealed myself to you."

"This makes no sense; I must still be hallucinating."

"You have never been hallucinating. Everything you witnessed is as real as what you fathom as real. You saw the bare face of our world, embellished by neither grandiose buzzwords nor vain promises. From this starting point of truth, you could divine your path to the place to which you longed to belong."

He was puzzled. What she just said was something he could grasp but not quite manage to put in his own words. She continued to explain for the sake of clarification.

"What you needed as an indie developer was a sense of belonging. You may not be the head of a AAA game company which is armed with all sorts of advantages such as an enormous budget or a body of myriad talents, and you may not be a genius who comes up with a marvelous invention that clamors to revolutionize the world. However, you can still be somebody's favorite game developer in your own treehouse of friendship."

She paused to give him a bit of time to think. Then she resumed.

"You saw many things - places which are filled with possibilities, mysteries, legends, and other fanciful crumbs of passion which never failed to distract you from the core of what you really needed. You are an independent developer, desperate in search of somewhere to which you can stick your identity."

He listened with a strange sense of delight, which was too subtle to let him jump out of joy but nevertheless piercing enough to freeze him in awe.

He contemplated upon the her words and asked, "How do I find a way to such a goal? I want to be somebody who is needed by others, yet it is the very methodology of it which confounds me."

"The way," answered the square, "lies on the outside of yourself. Even the brightest idea of yours is an empty word without someone ready to hear it. You must first explore your surroundings and learn from the words of prudent minds - not of those proud self-help gurus who exploit one's hope for their own advantage, but of those to whom you are willing to open your heart with reverence."

She rotated herself for quite a number of degrees to show some visual variety, but then she realized that her back was invisible to GameDev's eyes. So she resumed her initial orientation and carried on her speech.

"Use your wit to discern your hidden mentors whose lonely howls are yet to be heard. Compassion will let your thoughts resonate with theirs, and show you the way to the most ideal dream you have ever dreamed of. Every honorable journey begins with companionship, and you will find solace in it."

"My years of private struggle was all in vain, then," muttered GameDev in profound bitterness.

"No, it is not so," she responded with a mien of grace. "Your strata of self-reflection will push you forward even in the midst of utter solitude, up until the day you will finally embrace the presence of those who are willing to listen to you and speak to you."

He pondered for what felt like an aeon of inner debate. Then he gathered his courage and asked, "What about the audience? Don't we need people who are willing to play the game?"

The square approached him and said, "Your initial audience will be the ones who know you well. Once they play your game and appreciate it, their friends will come over and appreciate it, too. And the ripple of your personal connections will propagate itself indefinitely, filling up the pond of shared memories."

Then she disappeared.

GameDev was stupefied by this unexpected event. He looked around, trying to figure out where she went. He could not find any trace of her.

After minutes of search, he concluded that it did not really matter. She could've been a mere phantom of his own mind, but it was not important to him. All he needed to do was to get out of his basement to see the light of day.

(The End)