:d:An article about universal laws of game design.
:k:Universal, Laws, Game, Design, Conceptual-Space, Idea, Formula, Game-Math, Mathematics, Philosophy

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 1] 2023.02

Designing a game is a weird sort of challenge. It is not necessarily because game design is intrinsically harder than other aspects of game development, but because it is hard to find a fixed theoretical foundation upon which the developer can start designing the game in a systematic fashion. Whenever somebody claims that there is one, it often turns out that it is merely a collection of vague, metaphorical ideas which do not quite fit together in a quantitative manner. Those who have seriously enjoyed learning mathematics during their academic years may share this impression.

Many books on game design, even ones that are written by people who have backgrounds in the field of engineering, primarily focus on surveying the cultural implications of a wide variety of videogames. They often talk about the history of videogames and how the authors' friends succeeded in selling their games when they were high school buddies back in the 1980s, etc, and never forget to present the reader with a list of casual methodologies which are supposed to encourage everyone to design one's own videogames in a highly "creative" way (along with a couple of cute-looking graphical illustrations).

These are all good, except that it is hard to discover any solid principle in such books. They are, to me, hardly anything more than a pile of self-help books with the topic of game design in mind - an amorphous cluster of random thoughts and motivational slogans which are poetically connected with one another in a rather optimistic manner, yet do not fail to continue feeding our shared daydream that this whole "soft-skill" narrative somehow pertains to the conceptual essence of game development.

To be fair, there are academic papers which approach the problem of game design in a much more rational way. Professional game designers who have studied the nature of in-game economics have a lot to say when it comes to outlining and refining mathematical models of gameplay, such as progression curves, mutual balancing of intransitive mechanics, means of exchange and their relative values, and so on.

These areas of research, however, focus rather on the perfection of details and their psychological optimization than on the initial conceptualization of the game as a whole. The aforementioned mathematical models may apply well on projects that have already established their core gameplay dynamics, yet the models themselves help only partially when a designer wants to come up with a brand new game concept. And this is oftentimes a crucial problem to solve because indie developers who are trying to make their own games from scratch are usually "lost" when they attempt to conduct such a grand act of creation. This usually forces them to stay away from rigorous academic aspects of game development and desperately try to squeeze their way out of the abyss of uncertainties by means of random bits of brainstorm and other fragmentary ideas which we all can sense on a subconscious level but cannot tell exactly what they are.

A common method of game design employed by many indie developers is highly experimental and is based off of a trial-and-error feedback loop. First, they devise a quick prototype which could be as simple as a few geometric shapes randomly moving inside the scene. Then they try to observe the "fun" part of it and proceed to add a new feature to that scene (e.g. coins to collect, enemies to avoid, etc) which is expected to render the prototype more playable. And then, they play with the updated prototype, add yet another feature on top of it, then test it, and so on, thereby forming a back-and-forth cycle between playtest and feature addition.

Such a method, which is purely empirical in nature, is not an invalid way of developing a game. One can definitely approach the problem of creating something out of nothing by adding gameplay features one by one, just as a game character would gradually unveil the player's FOW (Fog Of War) by moving outward from its base step by step. This approach, however, seems a bit too tiresome and always makes me wonder, "Shouldn't there be a better way?"

What if there are some kind of "Universal Laws of Game Design", just like there are Newton's laws of motion in classical mechanics? Wouldn't their presence enable us to establish a solid foundation of any game during its early development stage, thereby letting us bypass the necessity of spending considerable time desperately searching for core elements which make the game fun to play?

In order to find out such laws, we must first contemplate upon the essence of what a game is. From a practical perspective, a game is an interactive medium which consists of a set of goals. The player endeavors to achieve these goals by making a series of choices, which are often being referred to as "actions".

<003_09>

Such a generic sort of conceptualization, however, is way too vague to be considered useful for our purposes. There is an infinite variety of goals which can potentially exist within the game, and the designer must elaborately choose a subset of them unless he/she wants the game to be a mere concoction of random narratives which, when combined, will simply confound the player with their collective state of chaos.

And in order to reduce the problem of deciding which goals should be part of the gameplay system into a quantitative (i.e. rationally analyzable) one, we must first classify goals into their respective categories. The most challenging side of this is to figure out the level of abstraction we ought to pursue during this process. For example, it would be too cumbersome to simply keep listing a bunch of random goals and putting them in a large taxonomical tree - that is, goals which have their own thematic elements that sound interesting indeed, yet are too specific in their own context to be considered valuable for general usage. Goals such as, "Destroy the emperor's spaceship from the outer orbit of the moon!", "Stop the train by draining its fuel tank before the detective burns more than half of his cigar!", and many others, are only applicable in specific circumstances and are therefore not adequately designed to function as reusable components.

<003_10>

The best way of avoiding such a rigmarole is to start from the most fundamental goals which we all share in common. These are the goals that are (either consciously or unconsciously) being shared by all lifeforms and are often indicated by terms such as "instincts", "archetypes", and kindred others which suggest their generic applicability. The idea is, once we have a clear notion of what are the most primitive goals of every living organism, we will also have a clear notion of what are the most primitive goals of the player as well because the player is a living organism, too.

Let us suppose that there is a single point in space which represents the simplest form of life we can ever imagine. It has no brain, no organs, no tissues, no nerves, and absolutely no cells. It is just a single mathematical point which only possesses a set of basic properties which would qualify it as a "living thing" and absolutely nothing else. This is the most abstract model of a biological organism we can manage to conceive in the domain of quantitative reasoning (Just like a "point mass" is the highest form of abstraction of a rigid body in classical mechanics).

<003_11>

This abstract lifeform has its own "region of influence", which is the set of all points in space that can be influenced by its existence (i.e. have a nonzero probability of creating a future event whose chain of causality can be traced back to the event which gave birth to the lifeform). Examples include:

(1) The organism's place of residence (e.g. A bird's nest, a person's house, etc).
(2) A territory that is frequently being visited (patrolled) by the organism (e.g. A cat's alley).
(3) The organism's lifetime (as long as we suppose that "time" is just another dimension in space).
(4) Portion of space which the organism's own body occupies (e.g. A plant's area of exposure to sunlight as well as the extent of its roots underneath the surface of earth, an area covered by a swarm of fungi, etc).
(5) A territory that is "owned" by the organism by means of power (e.g. military force, legal ownership, social consensus, etc).
(6) The organism's public reputation as a social being (e.g. popularity, brand values, credit, acquaintances, etc).
(7) The organism's biological heritage (e.g. distribution of its genetic information throughout the ecosystem, which can be defined as the weighted average of the regions of influence of its children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, etc).

<003_12>

The most ultimate goal of a lifeform is to preserve and expand its region of influence as much as possible. There are multiple ways of achieving this. If it is an animal (i.e. something which can displace its own body to somewhere else), it will be able to temporarily expand its region of influence by visiting places that are outside of the region. Another method which applies to all kingdoms of living things (not just animals) is to reproduce itself for the purpose of generating yet another point which is equally capable of emitting the force of influence around its current location. This latter method also expands the organism's region of influence in the direction that is parallel to the time axis, since creating a younger copy of itself is the most quintessential way of delaying the expiration of its influence.

<003_13>

There are also occasions, however, after which the lifeform's region of influence may shrink in size. The presence of another lifeform's region of influence may overtake the existing region (since increased influence of others means decreased influence of mine), for instance. Also, the fact that the duration of influence has its own limit means that unvisited parts of the region naturally erode over time.

<003_14>

The implication of the aforementioned phenomena is that an organism's region of influence is permanently being exposed to the state of oscillation between expansion and shrinkage.

<003_15>

Environmental factors constantly disintegrate the weakest parts of the region, while the organism itself strives to protect and enlarge it - for it is a common sense that letting one's line of influence propagate through the spacetime continuum as far as possible is the most optimal way of prolonging the causal chain of its own existence.

<003_16>

This general description alone, however, won't lead us anywhere except an endless row of philosophical treatises. For the purpose of game design, what we need is a set of discrete building blocks which can be used for formulating the game's narratives. Such elements must be based upon the core instincts that are universal in every biological being (in order to appeal to the broadest audience as possible), yet we must arrange them in a systematic manner instead of deferring the necessity of their acute interpretation with poetic rambling. As a starting ground, let me come up with the 3 most fundamental goals which I think must be shared by all lifeforms. These are: (1) Absorb, (2) Expand, and (3) Secure.

<003_17>

An organism must "absorb" resources from outside in order to gain enough energy to sustain its life and carry out its own sequence of actions; otherwise it will run out of energy and die. It must also "expand" its region of influence by means of movement and self-replication, while also making sure to "secure" parts of it which have previously been acquired.

One of the reasons why I have presumed the existence of these 3 particular instincts is that this trio are reminiscent of our popular conception of the way in which game mechanics can usually be classified. For instance,

(1) While playing a war game, the player has 3 choices: Whether to collect resources (i.e. "absorb" fuel and constructional ingredients), attack the enemy (i.e. "expand" one's region of influence by means of conquest), or defend the base (i.e. "secure" one's region of influence by means of defense).

(2) While playing Pac-Man, the player has 3 choices: Whether to collect tokens (i.e. "absorb" score points which will allow the player to proceed to the next level), spatially traverse each of the succeeding levels (i.e. "expand" one's region of influence by leveling up and climbing up the leaderboard), or avoid ghosts (i.e. "secure" one's region of influence by saving Pac-Man's life from the enemy characters).

(3) While playing a city-building game, the player has 3 choices: Whether to collect taxes from the citizens (i.e. "absorb" financial potential energy from the taxpayers), grow urban areas by building roads, public facilities, and other parts of the infrastructure (i.e. "expand" one's region of influence by literally expanding the size of the city), or prepare for potential disasters/crimes by installing fire/police stations (i.e. "secure" one's region of influence by means of first responders).

And the list goes on.

These three fundamental goals, however, will remain quite impractical if we are to regard them only as means of identification and nothing else. If we want to use them for game design purposes, we ought to represent them as mathematical procedures each of which has its own set of input parameters. This way we can allow ourselves to begin assembling bits of design logic with their functional implications in mind.

<003_18>

In order to figure out how to apply them exactly, however, one must beware that a game, despite being driven by goals and actions, starts its narratives from an arrangement of physical entities (aka "objects"). We have a world, and inside the world we have a set of objects. One could easily suppose that there must be a point in space which represents the game's central lifeform called the protagonist (aka "myself"). In addition, there could be other points in space which are quite isolated from the protagonist itself and can be grouped into two general categories:

(1) "Resources" - Objects which, when in touch with the protagonist, increase its ability to invoke actions based on its own will. Examples of resources include: Coins, Money, Fuel, Score Points, Victory Points, Action Points, Food, Crafting Ingredients, Collectible Cards, Keys, Territorial Ownership, Psychological Assertion of Dominance (e.g. Fame), and so on.

(2) "Obstacles" - Objects which, when in touch with the protagonist, decrease its ability to invoke actions based on its own will. Examples of obstacles include: Walls, Fences, Landmines, Enemy Characters, Explosives, Traps, Swamp, Locked Doors, Locked Chests, Diseases, Poison, Debt, Lawsuits (which are filed against the protagonist), Stigma, Accusations, and so on.

<003_19>

These two categories nicely reflect the dualism of our universe because they resemble the positive(+) and negative(-) energy particles of our physical reality. Resources are positively charged particles since they add up to the lifeform's store of potential energy. On the other hand, obstacles are negatively charged particles since they subtract from the lifeform's store of potential energy.

In order to grow/preserve its region of influence as efficiently as possible, an organism must maximize its number of chances to increase the region's current size. In order to fulfill this task, it must maximize its chance of colliding with a resource and minimize its chance of colliding with an obstacle. This means that the ultimate goal of every lifeform is to minimize its distance from nearby resources and maximize its distance from nearby obstacles as much as possible (while also making sure to keep expanding its region of influence by means of locomotion and procreation). This pair of motives, from a behaviorist point of view, can be modeled as a physical system made up of hypothetical point-charges and their surrounding hypothetical force vectors.

<003_20>

Such a purely mechanistic model, however, is probably not adequate for representing the design of a game because a game puts more emphasis on the semantics of motivation itself than its causal byproducts. Besides, representing the game's inner world in terms of a single continuous space filled with a fine grid of fields and their respective force vectors distracts us from constructing the game's individual components in a discrete manner, which makes it difficult to build gameplay systems in a highly modular (therefore robust) way. What we probably need is to identify a set of discrete rules of interaction between the organism and its surrounding resources/obstacles, rather than trying to analyze every detail of their ensuing physical phenomena.

(Will be continued in Volume 2)







:d:An article about universal laws of game design.
:k:Concept, Abstraction, Narrative, Design, Interactive, Medium, Biology, Psychology

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 2] 2023.02

(Continued from Volume 1)

In the previous volume, I supposed a number of hypothetical elements which could be considered the most fundamental building blocks of any game we can possibly imagine. This may be deemed too rash an assumption, and I by no means deny the possibility that the conceptual model I have devised so far is a flawed one. In order to solve the problem of game design with reason rather than a cloud of irrational ideas, however, one should attempt to at least capture a rough snapshot of the abstract nature of games by means of bold generalization. It is my personal conviction that, as long as such generalization does not stray too far from our shared definition of adequacy, it may show us a pathway to a deeper understanding of how a game can be designed.

Let me recapitulate some of the main propositions that were previously made. A game, regardless of its genre, usually takes place in its own isolated world (unless we are designing an AR (Augmented Reality) game, in which case the world may have direct causal relations with that of our own). Inside this virtual world, we have a set of objects which interact with one another based upon certain rules. The question is, how many types of object should there be, and how should such types differ from each other? One might suppose that every one of these objects is merely a point mass which behaves solely according to the laws of classical mechanics, and this is a perfectly reasonable presupposition to make if we are designing a physics simulator. When we are designing a game, however, we must be aware of its narratives and how well they will be able to articulate themselves on top of our model of how objects are distinguished and arranged within the context of gameplay.

In order not to deviate from such a task, I first rooted the origin of my design belief in the existence of a lifeform as a purely mathematical entity and the notion that its ultimate goal is to survive and reproduce for the purpose of prolonging its own existence as much as possible - for it is the question of life and death (i.e. "being" vs "non-being") which sits on the heart of any narrative, since narratives themselves are issued by living beings. And to clearly define the full range of dynamics which signify the presence of life and its spectrum of primeval goals, I have come up with a number of spatial entities.

<003_21>

Inside the game world, there is a point in space which represents the central lifeform called "myself". This is the protagonist which is supposed to be the focal point of the game's narratives. This biological organism, for the purpose of following its instincts (e.g. live, eat, grow, reproduce) as accurately as possible, has developed a tendency to measure its own success with respect to the rest of the universe by means of its own "region of influence". When the region grows in size, the organism knows that the footprint of its own existence will propagate further through spacetime and therefore satisfy its ultimate purpose in life. When the region shrinks in size, on the other hand, the organism knows that the distance of such propagation will be shortened (which is clearly undesirable).

Aside from the presence of a lifeform and its surrounding region of influence, there are two opposing types of particles called "resources" and "obstacles". Colliding with a resource increments the lifeform's number of chances of executing an action, thereby enabling it to grow its region of influence in larger quantities than before. Colliding with an obstacle decrements the lifeform's number of chances of executing an action, thereby forcing it to grow its region of influence in smaller quantities than before.

All these theoretical objects and their relations collectively form a pattern language of the game's narratives, not from a set of vague emotional/cultural references, but from a fixed set of mathematical definitions. For example, the modeling I have done so far allows me to summarize the aforementioned phenomena in terms of 3 independent variables (illustrated below).

<003_22>

In this diagram, "A" denotes the area of the protagonist's region of influence, "d+" denotes the average distance between the protagonist and the resources which it is able to observe (either via sensory organs or memory), and "d-" denotes the average distance between the protagonist and the obstacles which it is able to observe (either via sensory organs or memory).

Previously, I have suggested the existence of the three most fundamental goals of every living entity: (1) Absorb, (2) Expand, and (3) Secure. The reasoning behind the conception of these three becomes clearer when we consider them as the simplest collection of motives in terms of the derivatives of the protagonist's three scalar variables: (1) "d+", (2) "A", and (3) "d-".

<003_23>

To "absorb" is to decrease the distance between myself and a nearby resource, so as to grab it, eat it, and digest it for the purpose of gaining nutrients. This lets me carry out a greater number of actions than before due to increased energy. To "expand" is to enlarge the area of my region of influence, which is done by visiting points in space that are external to myself or by creating offsprings that are capable of visiting such places instead. To "secure" is to increase the distance between myself and a nearby obstacle, so as to decrease the number of chances of having my own energy taken away by it.

These definitions can nicely be summarized into 3 algebraic expressions, which are listed below.

<003_24>

The most optimal way of satisfying the goal "decrease(d+)" with respect to a nearby resource is to not just get closer to it (since the distance "d+" will still be nonzero as long as the protagonist's center of mass does not perfectly coincide with that of the resource), but also to pick it up and put it inside one's own body. Since both the protagonist and the resource are theoretically a pair of mathematical points, putting one of them "inside" the other naturally makes their centers of mass overlap and hence reduces "d+" down to exactly 0. The process of approaching a resource, picking it up, and putting it inside one's body can be denoted as "collect(resource)". This interpretation of "decrease(d+)" also matches the functional implication of a resource because one must ingest it first in order to digest and extract nutrients out of it.

The most optimal way of satisfying the goal "increase(A)" is to conduct one of the two aforementioned methods of expanding one's region of influence - that is, either visit a place which has not been visited for a while (in order to recharge its potential to transmit the organism's chain of causality), or create an offspring who will help expand the region instead. These two procedures can be denoted by "explore(outside(myself))" and "create(offspring)". The function "outside(myself)" indicates the set of all points in space which belongs to the outside of the organism's own body (which, in our case, can be defined as the set of all points in space minus the current position of the organism).

The most optimal way of satisfying the goal "increase(d-)" with respect to a nearby obstacle is to either avoid it (because getting farther away from the obstacle increments "d-") or destroy it (because destroying the obstacle, while it may be significantly harder then simply avoiding it, will instantly change the distance between myself and the obstacle to be greater than or equal to the minimum distance between the earth and the heaven). These two procedures can be written as "avoid(obstacle)" and "destroy(obstacle)", respectively.

<003_25>

So far, one may have acquired an impression that I am now delving into an endless rabbit hole of arbitrary details which are hardly anything more than a mathematically elaborated pile of wishful thoughts. But please bear in mind that there is a definite end to the process which I have been undergoing, and by the time the end exposes itself, it will complete the full picture of how all these functional specifications are supposed to come together and fit nicely into a unified design methodology.

Let's break down the procedures further. We have a bunch of new semantic elements called "collect", "explore", "avoid", "create", and "destroy", which are secondary goals aimed to solve their respective primary goals (i.e. "absorb", "expand", and "secure"). A person who is well-versed in computer science will easily recognize a recursive pattern here and proceed to attempt to break down these elements even further, thereby yielding tertiary goals from secondary goals, quaternary goals from tertiary goals, and so forth. Eventually, what we expect to witness is one gigantic tree of goals (which is often being modeled as a "behavior tree" in a videogame), in which the top of the tree indicates the most abstract goals, whereas the bottom of the tree indicates their most specific constituents (e.g. "Move object X from point P1 to point P2", etc). The question is, what are the most specific (i.e. "atomic") goals we can ever imagine? Once we know this, we will have a clear notion of what are the exact kinds of primitive actions we ought to implement while designing the computational structure of gameplay systems. And my personal belief is that the most basic form of action, which has the capability of achieving any type of goal when combined together in multitude, is "movement" (expressed in terms of the "move(...)" function).

The reasoning behind this lies upon the process of breaking down the goals. What will the protagonist have to do to "collect" an object called X, for example? One answer which makes topological sense is that hardly anything more than a series of simple movements will suffice. The protagonist can first approach X (i.e. Move the protagonist to X), put X into its own body (i.e. Move X to the inside of the protagonist), and that's it. These two actions, which are nothing more than a pair of discrete movements, allow the subject to "collect" X by first approaching it and then integrating it as part of one's internal inventory space.

The case of the "explore" goal is even simpler. Here, the protagonist only needs to move itself to a random position in space which belongs to the outside of its own body. This can be expressed as a single movement.

The "avoid" goal is also a single-movement goal, the only difference being that the destination of the motion is the opposite position of that of the given object X with respect to the protagonist's position.

<003_26>

What about "create" and "destroy"? At first, it seems that these two are primitive actions which fundamentally distinguish themselves from the act of movement. If we pretend to believe in afterlife and reincarnation, however, the process of creating and destroying an object can simply be interpreted as the process of transferring its immortal soul from ether to earth or from earth to ether. In more neutral terms, we can say that "creating" an object X is the equivalent of moving X from imaginary space to real space, whereas "destroying" an object X is the equivalent of moving X from real space to imaginary space.

<003_27>

Real space represents the set of all points in space that are currently defined as "existing", whereas imaginary space represents the set of all points in space that are currently defined as "not existing".

<003_28>

The five operations I have described so far (i.e. "Collect", "Explore", "Create", "Avoid", "Destroy") can be written algebraically as well. Notice that the right-side expressions are all made out of "Move" procedures only.

<003_29>

If we substitute the inner procedure calls of the 3 most fundamental goals with their respective right-side expressions, we get the fully expanded sequences of actions as shown below.

<003_30>

The implication of this is pretty neat and minimalistic, despite the seemingly complex list of steps we had to go through algebraically. The fact that life's three most fundamental goals (Absorb, Expand, Secure) can be broken down into mere sequences of movements and nothing else suggests that the entire narrative space of the game can be defined as a purely mechanical system represented by the collective sum of energy particles and their atomic movements.

This allows us to design a game with a methodology that is reminiscent of a scientific experiment in a laboratory. Once we know how the individual atoms behave, we will know how they combine with each other to form molecules. Once we know how these molecules behave, we will know how they will interact with one another to form large-scale molecular structures such as crystals. Eventually, once we know how these structures behave with respect to their circumstances, we will know how to leverage their characteristics for the purpose of manufacturing certain types of materials that are useful for industrial applications, and so on.

The same scientific reasoning can be applied to the study of game design as long as we start by breaking it down to its most atomic constituents and then figuring out how to assemble them one by one for the purpose of creating more and more complex structures. In our case, the "atomic constituents" are simple discrete movements of indivisible objects.

<003_31>

Now, of course, one may as well suspect that the model illustrated so far, which is composed of mathematical points in space and hardly anything else, is way too simplistic to provide the designer with enough room for devising rich gameplay experience. Indeed, the set of alternative player choices listed so far have been quite limited in scope, and they alone will not let anyone create a vast landscape of narratives which is typically expected in today's videogames.

The gameplay dynamics that have been explicitly illustrated so far do not confine themselves in their present state of demonstration, though. They are but an infinitessimally minuscule subset of game design's possibility space which is awaiting us behind the fort of unconscious, and the journey to explore its mysterious ponds and ravines has just begun.

Before seriously plunging into the essential strategies of exploding the spectrum of gameplay choices from a minimal set of emergent building blocks, let me talk about the definition of the word "offspring" which I have mentioned a few times so far. A typical usage of this word is to indicate somebody's biological child. In our context, however, its meaning is a bit more abstract.

The topmost goal of an organism is to secure and expand its region of influence, and the major difficulty which arises when it tries to keep growing its region's size is that the region itself is not a permanent entity; it has a tendency of eroding over time, as well as being overtaken by other organisms' regions. So it is not wise for the organism to merely keep recovering the weakest portions of its region by moving back and forth as frequently as possible, for it is a common sense that it must have its own speed limit as well as the necessity to constantly refuel itself with external sources of energy (e.g. resources), which are not always available instantaneously. Such a monotonic strategy is bound to introduce a hard limit to the maximum size to which the region can grow. A better method to guarantee the unbounded growth of the region would be to produce "offsprings" which will be emitting their own forces of influence around their positions in addition to those of the parent, thereby splitting the amount of responsibility it takes to maintain the current area of the region.

<003_32>

The offspring mentioned here do not have to be one's biological descendants; they may as well be one's properties such as livestock, pets, real estate, goods, and other objects which can be owned by the organism, or may even be abstract ones such as the organism's intellectual properties (e.g. patents), financial assets, reputation, credit, personal relationships, information, and others which can be deemed to help expand the region of influence.

These offsprings, abstract or non-abstract, collectively form the holistic definition of "myself" from the organism's point of view. When I own a car, it becomes part of my extended self despite being a vastly separate object from a purely mechanistic view. The reason why I can say this is that, since I own it, anyone who damages the car will have to pay me for it (at least from a legal perspective). This establishes a direct causal connection between the influence of my own existence and the influence of the car's own existence. If the car's area of occupation gets intruded, the intruder will be affected by the influence of mine (as a citizen protected by property laws) by having to pay for the act of offense. Therefore, it could be concluded that the car's area of occupation is a subset of my region of influence, and hence the car itself can be expressed as a point mass which constantly replicates my forces of influence around its current position. This is what an "offspring" is in our abstract context - an alternative point in space which extends the owner's influence beyond the physical reach of one's own body.

And there is a great deal of diversity in gameplay we can extract from the presence of offsprings. Suppose, for example, that there is an offspring called X.

<003_33>

Previously, we only had 3 variables which were labeled as (d+, A, d-). Now with the presence of an offspring, we have 6 variables instead: (d1+, A1, d1-, d2+, A2, d2-). "d1+", "A1", and "d1-" are the same ones as introduced before; they are the protagonist's distance from a resource, the area of the protagonist's region of influence, and the protagonist's distance from an obstacle, respectively. "d2+", "A2", and "d2-", on the other hand, are quantities of the same exact meaning except that they are measured with respect to the offspring X instead of the protagonist.

(d1+, A1, d1-) represent the metrics for tracking the performance of the protagonist's own body, while (d2+, A2, d2-) represent the metrics for tracking the performance of the offspring's body. And since these variables come in pairs such as "d1+,d2+", "A1,A2", and "d1-,d2-" (which can be expressed as 2D vectors) instead of isolated scalar quantities, each of the lifeform's three most fundamental goals can now be represented as a pair of alternative goals instead of just one (one for changing the left side of the pair, the other one for changing the right side of the pair).

The sub-goals "decrease(d2+)", "increase(A2)", and "increase(d2-)" can be expanded as shown in the picture below. The actions required to fulfill these goals are quite different from ones which associate themselves only with the parent and not its offspring. In this new circumstance we are facing here, the subject of these new goals is the offspring. However, it is still the parent who is carrying out these goals, which means that the way to accomplish them (from the parent's perspective) is to "help" its offspring to absorb, expand, and secure instead of directly pursuing them on its own because the parent is not a ghost that can just possess the offspring's body and have direct control over it.

<003_34>

And again, all of the subsidiary tasks involved in following the goals above can be fully expanded into sequences of discrete movements, which can be translated directly into machine instructions in almost any computing device.

<003_35>

Aside from alternative choices which arise from the presence of an offspring, there may also be alternative choices which arise from the organism's ability to bring a new offspring into existence. For example, one may destroy an obstacle by creating an offspring called "bullet", moving it to the inside of the obstacle's body (by means of "shooting"), and then letting the bullet carry out its own "secure(...)" goal by destroying the obstacle. The converse is also feasible. One may as well destroy (explode) one of its offsprings called "bomb" for the purpose of destroying its nearby obstacles as a side effect. The act of destroying one's offspring disobeys the organism's "expand" goal (since the annihilation of an offspring shrinks one's region of influence), yet it also allows the organism to obey its "secure" goal by getting rid of obstacles, which can be considered a decent choice to make if the latter brings more benefit to the organism than the former. Such an exchange between two competing goals (i.e. sacrifice of one goal for the sake of another) is an intelligent decision which the organism can be expected to display if it is a well-designed AI agent, or if it is a player-controlled character.

Such methods of endlessly spreading one's assortment of imagination, however, may not be adequate for our purpose of penetrating into the essence of emergence in gameplay. In the next volume, I will explain how the dynamic elements which have been mentioned so far will be able to fit together in the overall methodology of game design.

(Will be continued in Volume 3)







:d:An article about universal laws of game design.
:k:Narratives, Mechanics, Game, Design, Qualitative, Quantitative, RTS, MOBA, Videogame

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 3] 2023.02

(Continued from Volume 2)

So far, I have been suggesting a new way to search for an optimal method of designing a game by constructing a purely mathematical universe - a universe made out of abstract entities such as a single point in space representing a biological organism, its "region of influence", as well as energy particles of two opposing forces (positive and negative). The conception of such a hypothetical model, although its metaphysical nature prevents it from showcasing any specific example of game design right off the bat, has been intended to function as a gateway to the discovery of a set of "Universal Laws of Game Design" based upon its focus on our shared biological instincts as well as their generic applications.

The abstract world which I have been devising largely consists of elements which reflect the two mutually reinforcing aspects of game design - narratives and mechanics.

<003_36>

Since a game must begin with a narrative (otherwise it would be categorized as either "toy", "puzzle", or "simulation") and the root of it is the player's desire to become successful as a lifeform, it seems obvious that the most fundamental instincts of any biological being must also be the most fundamental building blocks of any narrative. And while it may appear as rather arbitrary, I have supposed the classification of our most archetypal desires into 3 types: Absorb, Expand, and Secure. These three indicate the topmost nodes of the player's goal tree, from which all other (i.e. subsidiary) goals originate in the form of subtrees. These are, within the context of the abstract gameplay model which I am proposing, the most atomic constituents of the game's narrative space.

In order to let the player traverse this vast tree of goals, however, a game must also involve a web of mechanics. Goals are nothing but a wishlist unless we have ways of achieving them, and such ways can be described as "interactive" only as long as the player is compelled to take actions to fulfill them. The presence of gameplay mechanics ensures the realization of such actions, due to their chains of causality which can either be invoked or not invoked depending on the player's choices. The easiest way to introduce such mechanics, at least from my perspective, is to come up with a few spatial entities which represent our real-life objects in the most generic fashion as possible (i.e. The protagonist, a region of influence, resources, and obstacles). Interactions among these indivisible objects are basically the game's mechanics which lead the player from one goal to another.

And the converse is also true. By observing a set of mechanics and their emergent behaviors, we can derive an assortment of brand new narratives. Placement of a treasure box behind a locked door, for instance, generates narratives which eventually lead the player to conceive the goal: "Find the key which unlocks the door".

<003_37>

The overall conceptualization of how narratives and mechanics form a cycle of mutual reinforcement, however, is not detailed enough to let the designer create anything substantial; it is more or less just a fuzzy overview of what is going on in a broad sense, which by no means delves into specifics that are crucial for the design process.

And because of this concern, I went through a quantitatively precise methodology of how the construction of a goal tree and its machine-level protocols of execution can be made possible by means of algebraic expansion. Each goal is essentially a formula whose terms can be substituted with their respective subgoal formulas, which means that the entire goal tree can be expanded into one large expression that is solely composed of the most atomic terms we can possibly think of. Such "atomic terms" are the computer's most primitive operations, which in our context are the movements of individual objects.

<003_38>

It is thus quite clear that we know how to design a detailed gameplay system based off of a set of narratives as well as a set of mechanics. We come up with goals, algebraically break them down all the way down to the most primitive level (e.g. discrete topological movements), and from the dynamics of their ensuing set of interactions, we allow ourselves to conceive yet another potential set of goals to solve, and so on.

The question is, will this cyclic methodology really lead us to the process of game design? After all, a game is more than just a stack of goals and actions. There are somewhat more qualitative aspects of designing a game such as thematic elements, storylines, hints, dialogues, contents, progression, levels, items, and myriads of other subtleties which are essential for rich gameplay experience. The purely abstract model which I have described so far does not directly suggest any method of implementing such features, so how an earth will anyone be foolish enough to expect a decent gameplay prototype out of it?

This kind of doubt is definitely valid on a perceptual level, yet it could also serve as a mental barrier which prevents the designer from seeing the essence of what is really going on behind the facade of worldly sensations. Anyone who is willing to design a game with efficiency in mind must build things from a carefully chosen backbone of abstraction, which does not necessarily embody any of the "features" that are directly visible to the player's eyes, yet has the capacity of giving birth to a number of functional elements that are highly modular and reusable. Once we have such elements, we will be able to come up with new gameplay features simply by assembling them together like Lego bricks.

Yet, it is also true that the theoretical model which has been outlined so far lacks a number of core elements which are vital for its practical applications. In order to create a commercially viable game out of it, for instance, one definitely needs to be able to answer the following 2 questions:

(Question 1) Most games should be able to involve not only the player character, but also other characters which exhibit their own behaviors in intelligent ways (i.e. behaviors that are somewhat more sophisticated than mere mechanical actions driven by mechanical laws). They may either be controlled by other humans such as those in a multiplayer RTS or MOBA game, or AI agents which imitate the way humans control their characters. How will the current abstract framework, which seems to only involve a single protagonist and a group of things which solely exist in relation to it, make it possible for us to come up with multi-agent gameplay?

<003_39>

(Question 2) The types of objects which have been specified so far are extremely generic. For example, anything which provides the player with energy is called a "resource", while anything which steals energy from the player is called an "obstacle". Most real games, however, contain multiple variants of resources and obstacles from which a wide spectrum of gameplay dynamics may arise. Such variants can hardly be designed within the context of mathematics, for they require thematic elements which cannot be fully analyzed in a purely logical manner. Hence, how on earth will a generic skeleton of a game be able to yield any chance of diversifying its gameplay ingredients, if the skeleton claims itself to be already functionally perfect in its own right?

<003_40>

Let me tackle the first question. It is, for sure, crucial to have multiple player-like agents within the gameplay system unless we only want to design static puzzles and nothing else. And this bit of necessity can immediately perplex the designer if we are to assign fixed labels to all things that are represented as objects in our hypothetical game world. The reason behind this is pretty easy to discern, as illustrated below.

<003_41>

Suppose that there is a human, a shark, and an ocean. Which ones should be considered "myself", "resource", and "obstacle" then, if we are to fit them into the context of the aforementioned mathematical model of the gameplay space?

Our intuition leads to the notion that the answer must be relative in nature. From the perspective of the human, the shark is an obstacle because it has the potential to attack him/her. The ocean, too, is an obstacle because it works as a spatial barrier which makes it harder for people to move from place to place. What about from the perspective of the shark? To the shark, a person is an obstacle because he/she is able to inflict damage upon its body by means of a spear or other equipment. The ocean, on the other hand, must be considered a resource because it allows the creature to move as well as maintain its biological function.

The presence of such relativity, which arises from the coexistence of multiple animate (i.e. motive-driven) agents, forces us to start representing the current model of the gameplay universe a bit differently from before. An object is described in terms of properties such as "myself", "resource", or "obstacle", not because they are intrinsic to the object itself, but because they are endowed upon the object by the observer's interpretation. Each property is more of a relation between a pair of objects than a constituent of a single object.

<003_42>

In general, we can define each of the objects as an "observer" because every one of them is the protagonist ("myself") from its own viewpoint. And the overall worldview can be summarized as follows:

<003_43>

A universe which comprises N observers can be considered an ensemble of N parallel universes, each of which is each observer's own set of interpretations regarding all of the N observers. For the sake of abstract reasoning, one could say that even a piece of rock is an "observer" in a sense that it does observe things that exist in its own parallel universe, yet possesses a tendency to not assign any motivational meaning to them.

Going back to the human/shark example above, we can fairly easily draw a conclusion that the human-observer belongs to a parallel universe in which both the ocean and the shark are interpreted as obstacles, whereas the shark-observer belongs to a parallel universe in which the human is interpreted as an obstacle but the ocean is interpreted as a resource. And the motive-driven behaviors of these two observers (human and shark) can be determined by algebraic patterns which originate from their respective parallel universes, just as shown below.

<003_44>

Representing the gameplay space as a collective sum of distinct observer-spaces can give us a strong temptation to indulge in the notion of synthesizing complex narratives that are more sophisticated than the three initial goals (i.e. Absorb, Expand, and Secure). The coexistence of different relations among different objects gives rise to a wide variety of implicit goals which may yield profound decision points (e.g. dilemma, prioritization, moral ambivalence, etc) and shift the gamer's stream of consciousness above and beyond that of a puzzle-solver, thereby opening up a gateway through which the game itself can narrate its own emotional stories as a collective lore. Examples of how complex relations might be able to emerge out of simpler ones are listed below.

<003_45>

If both objects are resources to each other, they are allies. If both of them are obstacles to each other, they are enemies. When only of them interprets the other as a resource and the other one doesn't care, that "resource" is just an ingredient (i.e. raw material) to be consumed, and so forth. Such descriptions are "derived relations" - ones that are derived from mutual arrangements of primary relations (e.g. "resource", "obstacle", etc). Given these additional factors, we can technically diversify the observing agent's behavioral pattern by endowing it with a bunch of conditional statements, each of which specifies how to react to the presence of each derived relation (illustrated below).

<003_46>

This sort of reasoning, however, raises two major concerns. One is that it complicates the algebra way too much, and the other one is that there is a great deal of ambiguity involved in the construction of derived relations and their ensuing goals/actions.

First of all, let us recall the elegance of the original formulas which were introduced in the previous volume: "absorb = decrease(d+)" and "secure = increase(d-)". They explained the agent's entire behavioral pattern by means of changes in its distance with respect to other objects. The purely geometric nature of this design, as well as its simplicity of computation, allowed us to easily come up with goals which could gracefully be broken down into sequences of primitive actions (i.e. spatial movements). Now with a bunch of derived relations which are not logically as straightforward as the original, we are heading toward a mudpool of vague design ideas made up of myriads of custom scenarios and potentially contradictory edge cases.

An even worse consequence of using derived relations is that they can be quite arbitrary in meaning. If Y is a resource of X and X is an obstacle of Y, for example, should it really mean that Y is X's prey and X is Y's predator? What if X is physically weaker than Y? If that is the case, shouldn't Y be called a "host" of X, and X a "parasite" of Y, since X won't be able to just catch and devour Y because does not possess enough strength to do so?

Also, what if there is a case in which an object can both be considered a resource AND an obstacle simultaneously, such as a radioactive material which can harm our bodies but can also be used as a source of power? What kind of derived relation should there be between this object and its observer? And if there is one, exactly how should the observer behave in order to satisfy both the "absorb" and "secure" goals at once, in regard to this "dangerous yet useful" object?

What if my own body is also my resource (supposing that I am a plant, capable of producing nutrients on my own)? Should I then "collect" myself and then use myself as a fuel? And if that's the route of my reasoning, hasn't such a goal already been fully achieved, since the distance between myself and the resource is already zero?

What if there is a resource which is also an obstacle of another resource? Shouldn't I take this complexity of relations into account and make sure that these two types of resources are segregated from each other as much as possible, while also making sure that I myself is as close to both of them as possible (which may introduce oscillatory behaviors due to perpetual recurrence of self-contradiction)? And what if there is a resource which is also a resource of my obstacle? Shouldn't I, then, be making sure to separate out my resource from my obstacle as much as possible, while also avoiding the obstacle and collecting the resource simultaneously? Should I avoid and then collect? Or collect and then avoid? Which heuristic should be used to determine the precedence between these two goals?

<003_47>

Etc...

And the list goes on and on, forcing us to consider every possible permutation of relations and manually design a separate behavioral algorithm for every one of them.

Such an exhaustive approach, for sure, is a terribly inefficient and error-prone method of developing the game's theoretical model. The main reason behind its exploding complexity is that thinking in terms of supersets of mutual relations creates a huge gap between the game's narratives and mechanics.

When I introduced a bunch of new relations such as "prey", "predator", "ally", and "enemy", what I did was come up with a number of semantic seeds for the game's advanced narratives. However, such derived relations were something conceived outside of the game's system of mechanics and thus turned out to be not quite translatable to a collection of executable actions. This made them stay as a vague cloud of mere wishes, hardly achievable in any specific way.

We may as well try the exact opposite method - that is, just come up with pure mechanics first and then build narratives on top of them. This too, however, leads to more or less the same level of unbearable complexity as more and more mechanics get introduced.

Let me take an example by supposing that a person starts to design the game's mechanics by devising generic components such as "signal emitter", "signal receiver", "signal filter", and so on. Since they are too abstract, one should be compelled to derive more specific types of components from them such as "ray signal emitter", "area signal emitter", "signal distance filter", "signal line-of-sight filter", and so on. A gun, for instance, can be considered an object which uses a "ray signal emitter" because it sends a signal called "bullet" by casting a ray through its calculated line of trajectory, and the target that is being hit by the bullet can be considered an object which uses a "signal receiver" because it receives the "bullet" signal from the gun and invokes an appropriate callback procedure (i.e. A function which plays a death animation and despawns the target, etc).

<003_48>

And we can definitely keep doing this for a while, inventing as many gameplay mechanics as possible by virtue of both inheritance and composition. If we have a timer and a bomb, for instance, we can combine them together to create a timebomb. If we have a lock and a door, we can combine them together to create a lockable door. And if we put a timebomb on the other side of a lockable door and then lock it up while there are enemies behind it, we can eliminate the enemies with an explosion without being hurt because the door will protect us. And so on.

However, it soon becomes quite clear that designing a game by simply coming up with a truckload of mechanical elements will hardly lead us anywhere beyond a mere assortment of emergent phenomena, since it is hard to decide exactly what sort of narrative sense we ought to make out of them. Suppose we have a game design template which is capable of generating an imaginary maze-like hallway (like the one in Wolfenstein 3D), filled with myriads of combinable/interactive elements such as locked doors, keys that can unlock those doors, buttons and switches which can trigger special events when activated, monsters with swords, monsters with guns, monsters with grenades, healing potions, invisibility potions, traps, explosive gas tanks, and so on. There are indeed many ways of arranging such elements, and one may be able to argue that even a random arrangement will be decent as long as the game is not primarily story-driven because the dynamics of their in-game interactions will naturally induce the player to make up his/her own set of narratives during the play. Delegating the production of narratives to the inner workings of the game's mechanics, however, makes it hard for us to come up with a game that is semantically rich in its own fictional context. A mere arrangement of mechanics may introduce an enormous set of clever goals such as killing an enemy by means of an unexpected chain reaction among a group of seemingly related objects and so forth, but it is hardly capable of giving birth to subtle narratives such as moral struggles, social bondage/conflicts, profound emotional revelation, jealousy, vengeance, betrayal, compassion, humor, etc.

And if we are to complete the full picture by trying to devise a whole separate list of narratives which is supposed to fit the complex web of mechanics explained above, we will be just as equally lost (if not more) as in the previous case in which we saw the difficulty of coming up with mechanics which fit the complex web of subtle narrative elements. Here is my conclusion regarding the requirements of a clean game design methodology, based off of the observations I have made so far.

A well-made game must consist of both narratives and mechanics; a "game" which lacks mechanics is a mere lore, and a "game" which lacks narratives is a mere sandbox.

And both the game's narratives and mechanics must be designed concurrently as parts of one shared system of logic, since either developing a system of narratives first and then trying to develop a system of mechanics on top of it, or developing a system of mechanics first and then trying to develop a system of narratives on top of it, will introduce too much complexity/ambiguity due to their lack of mutual compatibility. The question is, "How on earth will we be able to come up with a multidisciplinary prototype which is rich in both narratives and mechanics, despite the fact that these two areas of knowledge are drastically different from each other?"

In the next volume, I will answer this question by explaining how a minimally designed mathematical model can provide a "common ground of reasoning" for these two areas of knowledge.

(Will be continued in Volume 4)








:d:An article about universal laws of game design.
:k:Game, Story, Boardgame, Narrative, Mechanic, Knowledge, UI, UX, Postmodern

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 4] 2023.02

(Continued from Volume 3)

Can there be "Universal Laws of Game Design"?

Game developers whose academic upbringings can be traced back to the study of math and science may have already asked this question at least once during their lifetime, for it often brings up a bit of annoyance to be expected to simply concede the widely accepted opinion that a game, as a whole, cannot be analyzed in a purely quantitative manner because it is supposed to be an "interdisciplinary artform". After all, how could somebody even dare to question the stylish undefinability of postmodern rhetorics, which feign their own possession of intellect by hiding behind the wall of vague metaphorical connotations?

While it may sound snobbish, however, it is my personal belief that refusing to analyze a subject as a rational entity simply because of its apparent complexity is a form of intellectual laziness. No area of knowledge should be exempt from thorough examination as well as genuine endeavors to break it down into logical pieces, and the study of game design is not an exception.

In the previous volume, I undertook a series of thought experiments and came up with the conclusion that a well-designed game must be rich both in its narratives and mechanics, and that these two elements must be developed in a concurrent (mutually reinforcing) fashion so as to ensure that it is always possible to mathematically derive either one of them from the other.

<003_49>

The question is, how to construct a model which enables such a set of criteria?

This is indeed a tricky problem because simultaneously developing both the narratives and mechanics of the game, while also making sure that they fit each other, is prone to lure us into an endless abyss of extra definitions and arbitrary rules for the sake of resolving their mutual incompatibilities. And in order to bypass this, I have been trying to keep the abstract model of gameplay as simple as possible since the very beginning of this series.

The reason for doing this lies on the notion of "shared knowledge" and the importance of leveraging it for the purpose of reducing the boundary between narratives and mechanics.

While narratives and mechanics belong to two vastly different branches of knowledge, they both are part of one vast pool of human intellect within which their shared origin can be found. Humanity's tree of knowledge, while stretched like fungi all over the place, can ultimately be traced back to its most fundamental root called "philosophy". The ancients began to question the nature of mankind as well as the universe as soon as they were freed up from their utmost needs such as hunger, thirst, and security. They searched for the meaning of life, death, and other worldly phenomena, communicated with one another, wrote down their thoughts, and even proceeded to invent brand new languages (e.g. algebra) for the purpose of expressing their novel ideas.

<003_50>

As time passed by, the study of philosophy diverged itself into more specialized branches of knowledge such as ethics, aesthetics, metaphysics, natural philosophy, and so on. Then these branches recursively diverged themselves into even more specialized branches such as "physics", "chemistry", "sociology", and so forth, due to the emergence of experts who focused more on specific areas of knowledge than the entirety of what humans can think and reason with.

This process of specialization led to a great deal of misunderstanding between experts who came from different backgrounds. This has been fine for most part, especially in most of our industrial pipelines in which almost every process can be nicely encapsulated into an approximately independent area of expertise. The real problem of specialization rises when our intention is to create a multidisciplinary system such as a videogame. Since it involves fine arts, music, literature, storytelling, AI, physics, system dynamics, data science, and other fields of knowledge which differ significantly from one another yet are mutually intertwined in subtle ways, a game quickly becomes a piece of pure pain to make as soon as a group of highly specialized individuals who do not understand each other simply gather together and decide to undertake the process of developing it by means of collaboration.

<003_51>

Specialization of knowledge only works well for specialized areas of the industry. For designing and implementing a videogame, what we need is a group of "philosophers" who desire to understand the fundamental nature of games instead of solely focusing on their own domains of expertise. It is only when we establish a common ground of knowledge that we can start merging different fields of expertise into a single boiling pot and brew out the game as one, elegantly coordinated system.

<003_52>

And the common ground which I am referring to here is the study of philosophy, for it is a generally accepted notion that it is the root of all other studies. One question which may arise immediately is, "Okay, so you want us to design a game by using... philosophy? What do you expect us to do? Sit on a round table and take turns quoting some of the famous words of ancient Greek philosophers for the hope of discovering cool game design ideas?"

For this, I would suggest that the word "philosophy" is often being misinterpreted as an act of deciphering a pile of obscure ramblings from old academics. The study of philosophy does not have to be approached this way. Let us just ignore the preconceived notion of what the study of philosophy is supposed to be, as well as what sort of recondite terminologies we ought to employ in order to even let ourselves talk about it, and just restart our stream of consciousness from the very beginning like a new-born infant. Once we start from nothing and try to build some knowledge out of this pure state of nothingness, we will sense a hint of liberation which unhinges us from the burden of complicated theories as well as their annoying technical details. This pure development of knowledge is what I am referring to as "philosophy" within the context of this writing, and it is precisely this mode of development through which one can elaborate a common ground of reasoning that can be shared by all types of experts.

<003_53>

This was the line of logic I had implicitly drawn in volume 1, by means of a conceptual model made out of a few abstract yet universal entities. The initial ground of reasoning did not begin with a survey of popular games or popular game design books. Instead, what I did was simply start from nothing as though I were a child without any knowledge in the game industry, and gradually construct a rational model based off of our most intrinsic values that can be deemed universal to a certain degree, such as biological instincts ("Eat", "Reproduce", "Survive", etc) as well as basic elements of geometry (points, lines, shapes, etc). The purpose of doing this was to separate out the methodology of game design from any of its areas of specialization (such as "progression curves", "intransitive mechanics", "combat design", "user experience", and so on), so as to be able to preserve its essence and keep it universally comprehensible.

<003_54>

The trickiest aspect of designing a game based upon such a pure faculty of reasoning, though, is that it is way too generic and therefore not directly applicable to an actual game. This means that we do require some way of ensuring that the game's abstract model, while being general enough for nearly everyone to understand, can also extend itself to a rich panorama of specific use cases. According to my observations, these two seemingly contradictory requirements can be resolved by means of the two following strategies: Mathematical Minimalism and Quantitative Expansion.

(1) Mathematical Minimalism

The key to establishing a shared model of the game, which is supposed to be comprehended by anyone regardless of their professional backgrounds, lies on the usage of concepts that are universal. In order to establish a body of knowledge which we can all share in common with ease, we must step back from specialized areas of expertise (e.g. arts, engineering, level design, economy design, etc) and start everything afresh on a blank paper.

The answer to the question of how to undertake such a task lies on mathematical minimalism. As some of us are already aware, mathematics is one of the most pristine languages of mankind which is marked by its ability to represent every definable idea in its utmost degree of abstraction. Using mathematics, we can get rid of all specialties from a body of knowledge and cut it down to its most generic form. And the benefit of this is that such a purified model is independent of any specific context which might require the observer to become an expert at a particular subject.

<003_55>

Throughout the previous volumes, I have introduced a mathematical model of gameplay which only comprises 3 most fundamental goals (i.e. Absorb, Expand, and Secure) and their corresponding behavioral patterns (i.e. Decrease(d+), Increase(A), and Increase(d-)). One underlying assumption I made during the construction of these primitives was that they must all be "minimal" in terms of computation, so that even people who are not well-versed in the study of math will be able to understand the model fairly easily. If I introduced rather more advanced concepts such as rigid bodies, colliders, pathfinding, force/acceleration, local avoidance, and myriads of other topics in hard science, their ensuing complexities would have quickly overwhelmed the viewer and created an impression that the whole model is supposed to only belong to one specialized branch of knowledge called "engineering" and thus should be ignored by others.

In order to stay at the root of the tree of knowledge (aka "philosophy") instead of straying off to piles of petty technical details, what I did was to make sure to exclude any of the advanced mathematical techniques from the scene while still leveraging the power of math to represent our core concepts in the most shareable format as possible. Such a mode of development is what I would call "mathematical minimalism"; it is "mathematical" because every one of its constituents is rationally defined, and "minimal" because it describes every relation among its constituents as a simple measure of distance in space (which is the most minimal metric one can typically think of, regarding the relationship between two spatial entities).

We could have undertaken the journey of analyzing the relationships between objects by means of complex metrics such as: "The smallest weighted cost of traversing a path which starts from point A and ends up at point B", "The amount of energy it takes to move a unit mass from point A to point B", "The expected amount of damage the player will receive while travelling from point A to point B at its maximum possible speed", and so forth, but such details are non-fundamental and can be elaborated later on based off of the original question: "How to decrease the distance between A and B?".

<003_56>

The problem of implementing a pathfinding algorithm, for example, is important for engineers but not necessarily important for designers. The problem of defining whether the player's goal pertains to the matter of reducing the distance between two particular objects, however, is such a fundamental description of what is happening within the game, that it must be understood by both engineers and designers.

(2) Quantitative Expansion

It seems obvious that a purely mathematical model of a game, while being easy to understand without any specific background knowledge, is not sufficiently capable of letting the designer come up with a gameplay prototype that is rich in context. And the cause of this lies primarily on the apparent over-simplicity of the initial model which prevents us from expanding the game's possibility space into richer and richer contextual domains.

A feeble attempt I had previously made was to introduce a bunch of new qualitative elements to the scene, with the expectation that they will somehow allow us to enrich the game's design framework in a fairly consistent manner. This approach, however, quickly turned out to be not quite tenable due to the inherent dissonance between their qualitative nature and the attempt to analyze them quantitatively.

<003_57>

The main problem is that, when we add something qualitative to the system (as opposed to quantitative), we cannot seamlessly integrate it into the system's computational structure due to its inherent incompatibility. Relations such as "prey", "predator", "ally", and "enemy", for instance, are measures that cannot be reduced to rational definitions without making a truckload of arbitrary assumptions, and thus are prone to confound us with an infinitely wide spectrum of complexity. As a result, we naturally come to the conclusion that the system must always exclude any irrational concept from its domain of reasoning for the sake of preserving its sanity.

Such a line of logic is what I would refer to as "quantitative expansion". We do need to expand the system of gameplay beyond its initial stage of conception in order to let it present the audience with scenarios that are more sophisticated than mere geometric figures pulling/pushing each other, yet we must always be careful not to do so by adding brand new concepts that cannot be represented in terms of mathematical definitions. Instead, we must augment the system solely by recombining its existing elements in a strictly quantitative fashion, for it is the most sensible way to assure that everything within the scope of the system will still be reducible to computational rules.

<003_58>

So, how shall quantitative expansion be done? What has been proven so far is that mere introduction of subjective terms such as "ally", "enemy", "prey", and "predator", without definitions which pertain to the domain of computability, has a tendency of halting the advancement of one's design process due to their semantic ambiguity. According to my viewpoint, the way to overcome this difficulty consists of the following two criteria: (1) Exclusion of External Observers, and (2) Additive Composition.

(1) Exclusion of External Observers

In the previous volume, I have mentioned that the universe as a whole can be broken down to multiple parallel universes, each of which corresponds to the set of interpretations made by each of its constituent observers in regard to its surroundings. The main source of complexity which we have clearly perceived was the attempt to treat multiple relations among multiple observers as parts of a whole and label it with a unique name. The downside of this approach was that, since each observer belonged to its own separate parallel universe, trying to combine the semantic implications of two or more observers led us to the problem of merging two or more parallel universes together into one unified continuum (which created countless rooms of obscurity).

The solution to this is to avoid simultaneously considering the implications of multiple parallel universes and just focus on one of them - that is, only look at one particular observer and its outward relations at a time when determining its behavior, and simply ignore the perspectives of everyone else ("outward relations" mean the ways in which others are being interpreted by the observer of our interest, as opposed to the ways in which the observer is being interpreted by others).

<003_59>

This simplifies the problem by orders of magnitude, as it forces us to deliberately ignore the subtleness of meaning which may arise from a complex network of relations by excluding both circular and indirect connections from our domain of reasoning. All we need to care about when computing the goals/actions of an object, in this model, is its relations to others and nothing else.

(2) Additive Composition

So far, we have been assuming that each observer is a single mathematical point in space. This of course is a rather bold generalization which I have hitherto been carrying on for the sake of utmost simplicity, and is now turning out to be quite inadequate for expanding our gameplay system. If we consider every distinct object as a single point, the only shades of contextual diversity we will be allowed to add are only those that are qualitative in nature. In order words, if everything in our universe is an atom (i.e. indivisible entity), the only modification which can enlarge this universe's possibility space is to introduce brand new types of atoms, whose ensuing potential relations to the existing types are a bunch of arbitrary rules we have to specify thoroughly in a painstaking manner (which is extremely tedious and prone to contradictions).

Because of this limitation, we must consider the possibility of representing each individual object of our game world as a composition of multiple atoms instead of just one. This obviously gives birth to a certain level of complexity, but it is a kind of complexity which can be analyzed in a purely additive manner under a set of carefully crafted disciplines. By "additive", what I mean is that the behavior of a whole is equal to the sum of the behaviors of its parts.

<003_60>

As long as every object in the gameplay universe is an additive composition of atoms, we can always derive the exact behavior of any object from the individual behaviors of its component atoms; algebraically, it is only a matter of summation as long as those individual behaviors are quantitative entities (e.g. numbers, vectors, matrices, etc). If we want to identify the behavior of a complex object, all we need to do is just identify the primitive behaviors of its atoms and then add them up; the resulting sum must be equal to the overall behavior of the object.

How the aforementioned principles will help in case of practical applications, though, is another question we must answer. In the next volume, I will go over a couple of specific examples to demonstrate a way in which the principles shown so far can contribute to the process of game design.

(Will be continued in Volume 5)






:d:An article about universal laws of game design.
:k:Biology, Instincts, Game, Videogame, Survival, Mathematics, Motivation

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 5] 2023.03

(Continued from Volume 4)

How to design a game? And how to do it in a nicely orchestrated manner, rather than through an indefinite series of case-by-case analyses which can be deemed highly inefficient? It is my hope that a genuine search for "Universal Laws of Game Design" will be able to answer this question.

It is not hard to observe that among numerous game development professionals, especially those who call themselves "indie", there is a tendency of over-emphasizing the importance of practice and undermining the importance of theory when it comes to game design. A common advice that is being given to a newcomer often starts with: "Hey, you want to become a game developer? Then JUST MAKE A GAME first! Playtest it and see how fun it is. Identify its problems, fix them, and playtest again. Let other people play your game and give some feedback. Spend your time playing other games, too, and see why they are fun to play! etc etc..."

This approach is mostly valid and mostly works well, but there is one major hole here. In order to start the initial stage of development, one must be able to design and implement at least a decent prototype of the game in the first place. And during this early phase, a vague advice such as "Just make a game!" is almost always in vain because a game is a system of interlocking logical elements rather than a mere product of self-esteem.

<004_01>

Once we have a solid prototype, the rest of the development process may simply be empirical in nature. We may playtest it, fix its problems, add more features, playtest it more, fix its problems, add more features, and continue on and on like this, never requiring any profound theory for perfecting the design of the game. The problem of formulating such a solid prototype in the first place, however, will remain as an excruciating process as long as we only stick to the virtue of practice and not to the virtue of theory. In order to create something out of nothing, we must establish a theoretical groundwork of the game first in order to have something to experiment with, instead of just throwing in a bunch of random features first and then trying out each one of their random combinations until we find one peculiar recipe that "feels fun enough".

And in order to mitigate this difficulty of initial conception, I have been endeavoring to come up with a solid design foundation upon which any game prototype can be devised without requiring endless rounds of brute-force experimentation.

Here is the recap of the original model which had been proposed in volume 1 and 2 (shown below). A game begins with 3 most fundamental goals that the player is expected to follow, which are referred to as "Absorb", "Expand", "Secure", respectively. In order to achieve these goals, we need at least one protagonist character (aka "myself"). In our model, this character is represented as a hypothetical lifeform whose body is a single mathematical point in space.

<004_02>

This being, as the player's avatar, measures its current degree of success as a biological organism by means of the three metrics: (1) Its distance from resources, (2) Area of its region of influence, and (3) Its distance from obstacles. In order to achieve the "Absorb" goal, it strives to be closer to resources. In order to achieve the "Expand" goal, it strives to broaden its region of influence by visiting unfamiliar places and procreating. And in order to achieve the "Secure" goal, it strives to be farther away from obstacles either by running away from them or by destroying them (because the distance between a living being and a dead being is greater than any potential distance between two living beings).

<004_03>

The intrinsic limitation of this model, however, plays as a major bottleneck when trying to increase the richness of our gameplay. For example, this model contains only one player character, represents every "object" as a single point in space which discourages the designer from coming up with various interesting spatial features, apparently suggests no room for advanced narratives, and so on.

And in order to overcome such limitations without straying off to a mud pool of groundless complexity, I have suggested in the previous volume that there is a set of criteria one must follow in order to extend the system's scope of narratives/mechanics while also preserving its conceptual simplicity. First, the way we describe the core of our gameplay architecture must be "mathematically minimal" - that is, we must avoid complicated math as much as possible (in order to make sure that almost anyone can understand it) while still keeping a sense of mathematical precision for the purpose of acutely expressing the universality of its abstract nature. Second, we must extend the architecture in a strictly quantitative manner because introducing qualitative factors quickly degrades the whole design scheme into a gigantic table of arbitrary definitions. The purpose of obeying the characteristics of quantitative expansion is to compute everything from the perspective of only one observer at a time, as well as to always ensure to design complex objects in terms of "additive composition" - that is, design by establishing connections among already existing types of atoms instead of trying to introduce brand new types of atoms out of nowhere.

<004_04>

The benefit of mathematical minimalism is already pretty self-evident, I presume, since not everybody in the game industry is fond of advanced topics in mathematics yet they still concede that at least a small degree of mathematical precision is necessary for clarifying the game's design. This usually results in a state of implicit agreement which says, "Yes! We do need some math, but it must be as simple as possible for every one of us to understand".

The benefit of additive composition, on the other hand, is not so self-explanatory. One thing that is for sure is that it encourages us to create compound objects by assembling individual atoms together, but whether it will improve the versatility of our game design methodology or not remains a mystery as long as we do not see an example in action. So in the following few paragraphs, I will go over a couple of examples to demonstrate how additive composition will play out in practice.

Imagine that there is a human being who indicates him/herself as "myself", and that there is an angry cow nearby. This cow has a great deal of milk stored in its breast, and the person wants to steal milk from it. However, the cow is in a bad mood and is looking forward to hurt anyone nearby.

<004_05>

What does this mean to the human protagonist? From the viewpoint of "myself", this angry cow is both a resource and an obstacle. It is a resource because it possesses milk which provides human beings with useful nutrients (energy), yet it is also an obstacle because it is likely to damage human beings and divert their energy from being spent on tasks that are more productive than repairing their broken bones/tissues.

If we decide to satisfy these criteria by means of qualitative expansion, we will have to introduce a brand new class of objects and assign it a unique name such as "resource-obstacle" (in order to indicate that it is a halfway mixture between a resource and an obstacle). This will force us to start computing the dynamics of the entire in-game universe in terms of not only the existing primitive elements (i.e. myself, resources, and obstacles), but also another type of elements which popped out of nowhere (i.e. resource-obstacles). The main problem with this approach is that we now have to take account of how the protagonist must react to the presence of "resource-obstacles" and manually devise an entirely separate network of subgoals and tasks to make sense of their newly introduced web of causality.

<004_06>

This guides us to the realization that we should resolve the problem of the angry cow by means of quantitative expansion instead. For instance, rather than coming up with a whole new category of atoms, we can simply let each object be made out of two or more atoms (instead of just one) for the purpose of diversifying the context of gameplay without having to invent additional rules.

Suppose that the angry cow is not a single particle, but a connected pair of particles which represent the cow's body and milk, respectively. The cow's body is a threat to nearby human beings due to its sharp horns and bad temper; this makes it an obstacle to the protagonist. The cow's milk, on the other hand, is a collectible item that the person is able to steal from the cow; this makes it a resource to the protagonist.

<004_07>

The coexistence of these two relations, however, introduces a motivational dilemma between the sequence of actions that one must take in order to get farther away from an obstacle, and the sequence of actions that one must take in order to get closer to a resource. Two separate goals (i.e. "Secure" and "Absorb") are partially interfering with each other here due to the presence of two potential targets (i.e. The cow's body and milk), and the complexity of such a scenario has a tendency of forcing us to design additional heuristics to let the agent determine which degrees of prioritization ought to be assigned to each one of its goals; for it seems quite obvious that following both of these goals in parallel without any tie-breaking rule may trap the agent in a weird deadlock state, during which mutually conflicting goals and their ensuing actions cancel each other out and hardly motivate the character to do anything in particular.

<004_08>

Here is a solution. Just like we split up the angry cow into two components (i.e. cow's body and milk), we can split up the protagonist (aka "myself") into two separate components as well, which may be labeled as "my body" and "my hand". "My body" denotes the person's entire body except his/her hand, and "my hand" denotes the person's hand.

<004_09>

When a person wants to acquire milk from a cow, how does he/she do it? There could certainly be a variety of mechanical tools by means of which one may achieve such a goal, but the most rudimentary way of milking a cow is to grab its breast (i.e. where the milk is located) with one's hand and squeeze it. This means that it is only "my hand" which regards the cow's milk as a resource, and that "my body" has nothing to do with the cow's milk because we do not expect the entire body of a person to wrap the cow's breast and perform the squeezing action (Unless you.. never mind). Likewise, the cow's body doesn't have to care about "my hand" because such a marginal body part is not the main focus of the cow's point of attack. The cow's milk, on the other hand, regards "my hand" as its obstacle because a person's hand is a direct threat to the persistence of its connection to the cow's body.

The resulting schema is a neatly isolated pair of one-to-one bidirectional relations - one between "my body" and the cow's body, and the other one between "my hand" and the cow's milk. This simplifies the expected behavior of every one of the four atoms that are involved in our scenario, as each of them only regards either one obstacle or one resource (but not both) as its volitional pivot point. As long as this arrangement persists, "my body" will be running away from the cow's body, cow's body will be chasing "my body", "my hand" will be chasing the cow's milk, and the cow's milk will be running away from "my hand".

There is no multifaceted decision-making process involved in here whatsoever, since each atom always follows exactly one goal; the consequence of this simplicity is a nicely orchestrated system in which everything happens in a purely mechanical manner, fully explicable in terms of energy particles and their respective force vectors.

<004_10>

The practical implication of such a strictly minimalistic mechanical system is that, despite the apparent lack of any intelligence in the individual parts of the system, their combination introduces myriads of interesting emergent phenomena due to their additive nature. In the case of the angry cow depicted above, for instance, one can easily expect the person and the cow to display some kind of rotational behavior due to the combination of their pairwise opposing forces. The cow chases the person from behind the person's back, and the person chases the cow from behind the cow's back; the net result is a goofy-looking mutual tail chase.

Unless this spinning routine is perfectly stable, it is bound to end up in either of the following two cases.

(1) The person may successfully grab the cow's breast and squeeze milk out of it, after which the person will be free to simply run away from the cow because his/her hand will no longer be motivated to get closer to the cow's milk,

<004_11>

(2) Or the cow may successfully destroy the person with its horns before the person squeezes milk out of its breast, in which case the person's body will be sent to the imaginary space (due to death) and his/her hand will immediately follow it because both of them are part of the same object (aka "person").

<004_12>

Such nice decoupling of individual behaviors, however, is bound to face a major hint of contradiction when two mutually exclusive behaviors are allowed to coexist.

Let me take an example. The angry cow is not a perpetual motion machine and therefore must eat something (e.g. grass) in order to survive. In other words, it is expected to follow its "Absorb" goal as much as it is expected to follow its "Secure" goal. The problem is, a serious dilemma arises when we think about it within the context of physical realism.

<004_13>

Based upon the principle of additive composition, we can first represent the current scenario as shown above. Everything stays the same, except that now the angry cow has an additional component which represents its mouth. This mouth does not care about the presence of the person whatsoever, and solely focuses on the nearby grass which it can chew and swallow. The grass, which is an external object, is a resource from the perspective of the cow's mouth.

And just like before, it is theoretically possible to just assign separate goals to the cow's body and mouth. The cow's body can simply pursue its "Secure" goal by chasing/attacking its obstacle (i.e. person's body), and the cow's mouth can simply pursue its "Absorb" goal by eating the nearby grass. The nature of additivity does not prevent the system from simultaneously executing these two goals.

Yet, we all know that eating grass while also chasing/attacking a person is a nearly impossible task. The reason why it is so is that both the cow's weapon (pair of horns) and its mouth are part of one small and rigid object (head), which prevents these two from pursuing two different targets at once. In the previous case in which the cow was both chasing the person and dodging his/her hand, there was at least a fair amount of distance between the cow's horns and its breast which rendered the concurrent execution of their goals quite feasible (by means of the cow's rotation). In case where the spatial constraint (i.e. distance limit) is way too tight, as in the case of the cow's mouth being too close to its horns, we cannot simply superimpose two separate behavioral elements together and let their actions add up linearly.

<004_14>

So, what should be a solution to such mutually conflicting goals? Strictly speaking, there are obvious ways to circumvent this problem such as introducing a set of criteria for deciding when to spend time chasing the person and when to spend time eating grass, based off of parameters such as the distance between the cow and the person, the distance between the cow and the grass, the cow's hunger level, the person's aggro level, and so on. Just as mentioned before, however, such additional rules complicate the gameplay logic too much and clearly violate the principle of additive composition.

From an engineering point of view, this is a problem of how we should combine multiple subsystems in a modular way. When subsystems are completely isolated from one another, what we see is a mere conglomeration of small independent entities which do not possess any ability to collaborate. When subsystems directly depend on one another, on the other hand, what we see is a convoluted jungle of dependencies which is extremely hard to construct and maintain.

<004_15>

A typical solution to such a problem is to let subsystems neither isolate themselves nor establish direct interdependencies, but simply "communicate" with each other in an explicit way. A large-scale computer program, for example, does not let its internal modules directly access/modify one another; instead, it lets them use an intermediary medium such as a messaging system for cooperative purposes. The reason why such a buffered method of communication is deemed a great way of designing a computational framework is that it allows us to control the way in which the modules interact with each other by simply controlling the way in which information flows from one place to another.

This design philosophy can be applied to our case as well. From what we have observed so far, it appears to be a bit too rash to assume that every one of the individual atoms of an object can operate in a completely independent manner while also preserving the realism of our everyday physical phenomena. Yet, it is also true that establishing additional rules which involve multiple atoms and their implicit properties complicates the matter way too much. Therefore, it seems pretty evident that we should allow atoms to communicate with one another through a separate medium in order to establish a nice compromise between the two extreme methodologies (i.e. No Dependency VS Direct Dependency).

In the next volume, I will go over in detail the methods of leveraging this conclusion as means of ensuring the robustness of our gameplay system without damaging its modularity.

(Will be continued in Volume 6)








:d:An article about universal laws of game design.
:k:Game, Design, Composition, Multidisciplinary, Interdisciplinary, Signals, Systems, Architecture

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 6] 2023.03

(Continued from Volume 5)

Designing a game is a monumental task, since it is a multidisciplinary system which involves vastly different faculties of mind. This requires us to begin the process of developing a game from bottom up, starting from a common ground of knowledge which can easily be understood by experts of any kind as well as laymen. And in order to devise a groundwork for such a shared medium of understanding, I have been drafting a purely mathematical (i.e. devoid of particulars) and minimal model which may be considered a generic archetype of any type of game we can think of.

And the principles which were established to let us enrich this model without introducing too much complexity have been suggesting that the gameplay system, as a whole, must always be extended in both a quantitative and additive manner - "quantitative" because irrational ideas are prone to stray our attention off to mere wishful thoughts, and "additive" because the notion of expressing a large-scale system as the sum of its parts is the most straightforward way of ensuring that we won't have to frequently add new rules in order to increase its robustness.

In the previous volume, however, we saw the difficulty of applying the principle of additive composition without limiting some of the core design factors such as mutually exclusive actions, condition-driven actions, and so on. An angry cow, for example, cannot be eating grass and attacking a person at the same time, despite the fact that it is logically sound from the point of view of additive composition to simply let these two actions independently trigger themselves at any time.

Preserving a sense of additivity while also preserving our ability to design conditional phenomena, fortunately, is not an impossible task. Individual atoms can be allowed to communicate with one another without crossing the borderline of their modularity, as long as they do so by only interacting through an external medium such as a message router.

<004_16>

Here is an example of how it could be done in our angry cow example. As explained before, the angry cow must both be able to chase/attack a nearby person and be able to eat nearby grass, yet it must not be allowed to carry out these two actions simultaneously. The trouble is, such a constraint is not realizable as long as we force the cow's weapon (horns) and its mouth to make decisions on their own without checking each other's current status.

A method we can use to solve this problem is to imagine each atom as a signal transmitter.

<004_17>

It is possible for an atom to communicate with the external world as long as it is capable of emitting and receiving signals (A "signal" can be thought of as a theoretical particle which carries information, like a message). And the idea is that even if there are atoms which are not directly interrelated at all, they can still indirectly communicate with each other by emitting and receiving signals.

Ever since the introduction of the concept of "inside" and "outside" in volume 2, it has been implicitly assumed that each atom is able to contain another atom inside of its own body, as opposed to its outside. One of the practical necessities of this logic, illustrated in volume 2, was to allow each atom (such as one which represents a biological organism as a single mathematical point) to either absorb resources for the purpose of replenishing its own energy, or to carry another atom from place to place by first picking it up, visiting the destination, and then dropping it.

<004_18>

Such a set of mechanics can be used for communication purposes as well, if we suppose that a signal is also an atom. For instance, we can build an inter-atomic communication protocol by saying that the process of sending information from atom A to atom B is the same thing as letting atom A emit a signal and then letting atom B receive it. And the benefit of this is that neither of these two atoms is required to assume the presence of the other because they only communicate by means of third-party entities called "signals".

<004_19>

This method of reasoning is highly valuable when it comes to the problem of explaining causal relations between atoms. A cow's mouth perceives a nearby grass as a resource which it should approach and eat. The question is, how does it recognize the existence of the grass in the first place? If we simply let the cow's mouth and the grass directly reference each other by means of explicit relations such as "resource" and "obstacle", we will be creating interdependencies that are destined to confound the whole system beyond the grasp of our control. So while the concept of direct atom-to-atom relations is an easy way to express the semantic implications of a set of atoms, it should rather stay as a convenient fiction which does not pertain to the inner workings of the system.

Let's contemplate the nature of communication from a practical point of view. When there is a chair in front of us, we observe it and recognize it as a chair; then we make a decision such as "I am going to sit on this chair" based upon the fact that we are interpreting the objective of our observation as a chair. This means that any chair-related decision ought to originate from the act of observing and identifying a chair. How does it happen? Well, the chair emits light particles (i.e. "signals") and our eyes receive them, which effectively engrave a photographic image of the object upon the surface of our consciousness. We then recognize visual patterns in the perceived image which, after a brief interval of classification and other subsidiary processes, lead us to conclude that the signals which our eyes received are the proof of existence of an entity called "chair" within our field of view.

<004_20>

The same exact reasoning, which bases the framework of causality upon the idea of signal transmission which takes place under the presence of an intermediate medium, can be applied to the case of the cow's mouth recognizing a nearby grass as its resource. The grass emits its own "grass signals" which are particles moving radially in empty space. These particles are not immortal, though, so they gradually decay and finally disappear after a designated length of time. As a result, this creates a cluster of grass signals around the grass atom's center of emission, whose density decreases as the radial distance from the center increases.

The cow's mouth, on the other hand, possesses a tendency of receiving any adjacent grass signals and temporarily storing them in its internal receptors (I am saying "temporarily" because each signal has a limited lifespan). The number of receptors indicates the maximum number of signals that the cow's mouth is allowed to hold within itself at any moment in time.

<004_21>

Due to radial spread of signals as well as their temporal decay, the probability that the cow's mouth will be receiving a grass signal at a random point in time is bound to increase as the cow's mouth gets closer to the grass and decrease as the cow's mouth gets farther away from the grass. This means that the rate at which the receptors of the cow's mouth gets filled up with grass signals, by nature of statistics, will tend to be inversely proportional to the distance between the cow's mouth and the grass.

So, how will such an interpretation of the world influence the way in which we determine how an atom recognizes another atom and reacts to its presence? The illustration above certainly seems to complicate the whole matter a bit too much, and indeed the idea of simulating the movement of every individual "signal particle" in real time is not going to apply well to a videogame when it comes to computational efficiency. The physics-like model shown above, therefore, should be considered a proof of a concept rather than an actual implementation.

The point of demonstrating the process of atom-to-atom communication in terms of continuous signal emission and reception is to show how a robust decision-making logic is able to emerge out of a collection of purely mechanical phenomena rather than a pile of arbitrary rules that are hard to manage.

In the previous volume, I have mentioned the technical difficulty of allowing both the angry cow's body and mouth to exhibit their own behaviors in a disjoint (mutually exclusive) manner. If it were okay for the cow to chase the person and eat the grass at the same time, we wouldn't have to do anything other than simply letting the cow's body and mouth execute their own actions whenever they wanted to because they would never have to communicate with each other at all. The problem arises because the cow's body and mouth should not be allowed to execute their own actions in parallel, and this is why we need to make sure that these two atoms are communicating with each other and making decisions on whether to carry out an action or not based upon their current state of mutual conversation.

Here is how an appropriate signaling scheme can be designed for the purpose of control in this example. The angry cow's body and mouth are both atoms, and the person and the grass are atoms as well. This means that every one of them is a signal transmitter, capable of emitting, receiving, and storing signals by means of moving them inside/outside of its own cellular membrane as well as temporarily keeping them in its receptors.

<004_22>

We all know that, according to the construct of this schema, the person will be emitting "person signals" from its current position and the grass will be emitting "grass signals" from its current position. The cow's body is sensitive to the person's presence, so it will be receiving and storing "person signals" as long as it is sufficiently close to the person. The cow's mouth, on the other hand, is sensitive to the grass's presence, so it will be receiving and storing "grass signals" as long as it is sufficiently close to the grass.

And the ensuing behavioral expectation can proceed like this: "If the majority of your receptors are filled with 'person signals', chase and attack the person. If the majority of your receptors are filled with 'grass signals', approach and eat the grass."

This interpretation alone, of course, is not sufficient to prevent concurrent execution of the cow's two mutually exclusive goals. As soon as the majority of the body's receptors are filled with "person signals" and the majority of the mouth's receptors are filled with "grass signals", what we will immediately witness is that the body's action and the mouth's action will both be triggered without any means of suppressing either one of them.

<004_23>

However, we ought to also realize that transmission of signals can be performed between any pair of atoms, not just between the person and the cow's body or between the grass and the cow's mouth. It can happen between the cow's body and mouth as well, by means of the cow's internal signal routes such as its nervous system. The body and mouth are directly connected with each other to indicate that they are components of one shared object called "cow", and it is fairly reasonable for us to assume that such a topological connection is a communication channel which allows direct transfer of signals from one end to the other.

Let us suppose that the cow's body not only receives "person signals" from the person but also sends copies of them to the cow's mouth through the channel, and that the cow's mouth not only receives "grass signals" from the grass but also sends copies of them to the cow's body through the channel. The overall logic can be summarized as:

"Whenever you receive a signal called X, make a copy of it called X1. If there is an available (empty) receptor, store X in it or destroy X otherwise. At the same time, send X1 to your connection."

If the atom had 2 connections, it'd be generating 2 copies and sending them to both of its respective connections, and so on. The general idea is that every atom inside a connected set of atoms (aka "object") stores signals from the external environment (as long as there are receptors available) and sends their replicas to its adjacent connections. This is the way in which each atom can "broadcast" its signals to the whole network.

<004_24>

One may claim that this network-oriented model violates the principle of "indirect communication" by letting atoms directly talk to one another without using any intermediate medium. Such a concern, however, will quickly dissolve as soon as we remind ourselves that a connection between two atoms can be interpreted as an intermediate medium itself. Whereas the person and the grass simply emit their own intrinsic signals (i.e. "person signals" and "grass signals") to the global space, the cow's body and mouth can be thought of as emitting copies of their received signals to a local space which represents the spatial volume occupied by the connection between these two atoms.

<004_25>

The end result of both radial and network-oriented means of signal propagation is that, at each moment in time, each atom will be possessing a fairly unique composition of signals within its inventory of receptors (given that there are enough number of receptors as well as signals that are being emitted/received, besides that the lifespan of each signal is not too long). Take the cow's body and mouth as an example. The cow's body receives "person signals" from the person in real time and broadcasts them to the cow's mouth in real time. Meanwhile, the cow's mouth receives "grass signals" from the grass in real time and broadcasts them to the cow's body in real time. This implies that both the influx of "person signals" and the influx of "grass signals" are actively completing with each other to occupy the majority the receptors in both the cow's body and the cow's mouth.

If the majority of receptors in both the cow's body and mouth get filled with "person signals", the cow's body will begin to execute its own act of chasing/attacking the person and the cow's mouth will be silent. If the majority of receptors in both the cow's body and mouth get filled with "grass signals", on the other hand, the cow's mouth will begin to execute its own act of eating the grass and the cow's body will be silent.

It is reasonable to suppose that there could be cases in which the cow's body has its receptors dominated by "person signals" while the cow's mouth has its receptors dominated by "grass signals", during which both of them will trigger their own actions and plunge the cow into an awkward inner conflict. Such a scenario, however, can be assumed to be highly improbable or at most only momentary because the cow's body and mouth are always actively sharing signals with each other. This creates an effect that is reminiscent of two adjacent heat-conducting materials reaching a thermal equilibrium due to the fact that thermal energy can easily flow between them. Just as two adjacent heat conductors will both be cold when the environment's temperature is low and both be hot when the environment's temperature is high (once the equilibrium is reached), we can reasonably expect the cow's body and mouth to be both dominated by "person signals" when the environment is predominantly occupied by the person's field of signal radiation or be both dominated by "grass signals" when the environment is predominantly occupied by the grass's field of signal radiation.

<004_26>

This concept of equilibrium can be useful when it comes to letting each object (i.e. network of atoms) exhibit only one of multiple possible behaviors instead of all of them at once. Since every component atom contains a finite number of receptors and every incoming signal can be shared across the whole network, it is only a matter of time until the object's whole "nervous system" gets saturated with exactly one type of signals and not others. And once this state of saturation becomes clearly recognizable, every atom within the same network can assure that it can act accordingly to the presence of the dominant signal without having to worry about contradicting the actions of other atoms.

If the entire connected set of atoms always share all types of signals with one another, however, what we will witness is that the object as a whole will always be bound to display one behavior at a time (which is not necessarily desirable). Let us recall from the example of the angry cow that there are goals which can definitely be carried out in parallel, aside from goals which are required to be disjoint in nature. The cow's body and mouth must have their behaviors synchronized, for instance, but the cow's body and milk do not have to because the cow can rotate itself for the purpose of chasing the person and dodging his/her breast-grabbing hand simultaneously.

Such a distinction can be realized by letting each atom either emit or receive certain types of signals in a highly discriminatory fashion.

<004_27>

The cow's body only receives external "person signals" and ignores external "grass signals" because it is only interested in the person and not the grass. The cow's mouth, on the other hand, only receives external "grass signals" and ignores external "person signals" because it is only interested in the grass and not the person. Such a filtering mechanism can also be applied to the process of internal networking. For example, we can choose not to allow the cow's body to send copies of its "person signals" to the cow's milk, thereby letting the milk keep acting based off of its own storage of "hand signals". Likewise, the cow's milk can be chosen not to send copies of its "hand signals" (which it receives from the person's hand) to the cow's body, thereby letting the body keep acting based upon its own storage of "person signals".

Such controlled emission/reception of signals is so robust, that this concept alone is capable of giving birth to myriads of sophisticated in-game mechanics. It is highly scalable because the design of individual atoms is still additively composable (That is, one does not have to explicitly specify relationships between atoms), as well as being mathematically minimal because the idea of emitting/receiving signals can easily be illustrated graphically rather than by means of recondite formulas.

I digressed a bit into the realm of technical details, but the overall purpose of the thought experiments conducted so far was to prove, at least on a theoretical level, the feasibility of constructing an intelligent large-scale system out of relatively simple yet emergent building blocks.

In the next volume, I will explain how this system of concurrent signal transmission will eventually merge itself with the overall architecture of gameplay.

(Will be continued in Volume 7)








:d:An article about universal laws of game design.
:k:Game, Design, Universal, Laws, Atomic, Gameplay, Videogame, Narrative, Storytelling

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 7] 2023.03

(Continued from Volume 6)

Throughout the two previous volumes, I have been pointing out the difficulty of concurrently triggering various actions inside their shared gameplay space without letting themselves contradict one another, for which I have introduced a brand new system (i.e. network of signal transmitters) as a safe solution.

The remaining issue is to integrate this new system into the existing gameplay model which is quite distinct in the sense that it is based upon a mutually reinforcing cycle of narratives (hinted by "Absorb", "Expand", and "Secure") and their respective mechanics (hinted by "Region of Influence", "Resource", and "Obstacle"). We have already seen how the atom-to-atom signaling scheme may fit into the framework of compound objects and their emergent behaviors by looking at a specific example (i.e. angry cow), yet I have not yet established a unified conceptual foundation of everything which have been illustrated so far. In order to let such an establishment be undertaken thoroughly without any bit of vagueness, I will first revisit the basics of the gameplay model which was initially proposed and clarify some of its structural details for the purpose of the theory's integrity and further development.

In the beginning, I supposed that the most basic form of life is a single mathematical point in space (i.e. single atom) which exhibits 3 most fundamental goals throughout its lifespan: "Absorb", "Expand", and "Secure". And in order to describe the physical configuration of the gameplay universe which is responsible for triggering the realization of these 3 goals, I have also supposed the existence of 3 most fundamental entities in space - namely, "Region of Influence", "Resource", and "Obstacle".

<004_28>

The 3 goals are originated from the game's narratives, whereas the 3 entities are originated from the game's mechanics. The 3 goals encourage the lifeform (which refers to itself as "myself") to modify its spatial configuration with respect to the 3 entities, and the 3 entities encourage the lifeform to conceive these 3 goals. This, in the long run, creates an endless cycle of mutual reinforcement between the game's narratives and mechanics, which enables the growth of both of these two pillars of interactivity in the form of a rapid back-and-forth iteration.

Then I went on to suggest that these archetypal elements, just like atoms in chemistry, are able to bond with each other to form compound objects which possess their own intelligent behaviors based off of a fairly minimal set of additive building blocks such as atoms and their discrete movements.

<004_29>

And in order to solve the problem of resolving inner conflicts which may arise among atoms, I introduced the notion of signal-based communication which can potentially happen between any pair of atoms in a selective manner. This system of indirect atom-to-atom interaction provided us with the ability to construct complex objects simply by assembling a group of independent atoms, rather than by manually devising a bunch of additional rules to tell the system how they should be interrelated.

<004_30>

This model, however, raises a major concern due to its implication of complexity. As you may have noticed already, I have introduced quite a large number of concepts so far which can hardly be referred to as "minimal" in the sense that it is supposed to let us design a wide variety of games based upon a set of very few basic components. The sum of all the descriptions which have been made to represent the current model renders itself as quite contrary to such an objective. Apparently, the theory itself involves not just atoms as the ultimate constituents of the gameplay universe, but also their mutual connections, signals, regions in space, internal receptors, transmission filters, goals, actions, and so on.

This looks pretty complicated, isn't it? If we observe the entire model from a purely computational point of view, however, we can easily realize that it is possible to simplify the whole scene down to a much slimmer subset of terminologies. In order to illustrate the reasoning behind this blunt assertion of optimism, let me revisit the initially introduced model which represented the game's protagonist as a single atom that persistently strives to preserve and expand its own region of influence, by means of decreasing its distance from "resource" atoms, increasing its distance from "obstacle" atoms, and spatially expanding the region via movement and procreation.

<004_31>

This mathematical representation is not so minimal in the sense that it requires us to keep both of the two drastically different conceptual entities in mind, which are typically called "atom" and "space", respectively. The points in space among which we measure distances are termed "atoms", whereas a domain of existence within which individual atoms can claim themselves to be associated with specific locations (coordinates) is termed "space". This worldview is pretty reasonable in most circumstances because our common sense dictates that the universe must possess a pool of dimensional permutations called "space" in order to be able to have spatial entities in it.

The dualism between atom and space, however, can easily complicate the way in which the system is being formulated. And it is my abstract sort of conviction which insists that the entire universe can be depicted as a set of atoms only, without any necessity of involving the notion of space whatsoever.

Here is the reason. When we represent the global gameplay space as a hierarchical composition of local spaces and proceed to suppose that an atom belongs to one of these local spaces, what we are saying is that the atom's current topological position in space is essentially just a binding of an atom to the space to which it belongs. And since there is apparently no reason to assume that a space must be functionally distinct from an atom (aside from perceptual differences), it is highly sensible to claim that a space is an atom, too.

<004_32>

In other words, it is not so rash to imagine that any volume of space is just a graph made out of atoms, each of which corresponds to a continuous spatial region. Each binding between two atoms tells us which spatial region is contained in another region.

This alternative worldview works as a key to a much more elegant description of the gameplay universe, especially when it comes to events which occur among objects and their component atoms. For example, a movement of an atom from one point in space to another can be equated with the process of unbinding the atom from its original region of residence and rebinding it to a different region of residence.

<004_33>

If we fancy that the notion of "binding" in this case represents some kind of land ownership, we may as well suppose that the act of movement is a micro-scale real estate transaction which happens inside a hypothetical system of finance. An atom which moves from place to place does so by "selling" its initial location and then subsequently "buying" its final location as a form of exchange. In general, every observable entity which constitutes our physical phenomena (e.g. a piece of matter) can be described as a financial asset, and every physical process such as a displacement can be described as a transaction which triggers a set of exchanges among such assets. This idea may be a bit too abstract, yet it bears a hint of pragmatism when we consider the possibility of developing a game which operates on top of a financial protocol (e.g. blockchain) and directly associates its in-game activities with means of monetization.

<004_34>

A potential source of confusion which may arise at this point is the concept of "connection" between atoms which allows us to create compound objects by means of composition. When we "connect" multiple atoms together, we are basically grouping them and treating them as a singular object. How does this differ from the concept of "binding" which I have introduced above?

The answer is that a "connect" is nothing more than a form of indirect binding between a pair of atoms. When two atoms are connected with each other, it is implicitly assumed that they are both contained within the same local space. Although this definition may seem a bit too arbitrary, it proves itself to be quite handy when it comes to explaining the nature of connection-based signal transmission between atoms (as explained in volume 6). So for the sake of internal consistency and convenience, I will stick to such a definition for now.

Since a local space is itself an atom, the state of two atoms residing in the same local space is an equivalent of two atoms being bound to the same target atom. This is what is meant by the word "connection".

<004_35>

As a result, a compound object (which is a connected set of atoms) can be thoroughly represented as a set of atoms which locally share their intermediary binding targets in a pairwise manner.

<004_36>

Signal transmission, too, is fully explicable in terms of bindings among atoms. A signal is just an atom (although it is not as tangible as others), and the space through which it is able to propagate, such as a copper wire, is also yet another atom to which both the emitter and receiver of the signal are bound. And from this unified mode of conceptualization, we can easily deduce that the act of sending a signal from one atom to another is made up of 2 discrete movements: (1) A movement which rebinds the signal from the emitter to the medium of communication (aka "connector"), and (2) Another movement which rebinds the signal from the medium of communication to the receiver.

<004_37>

Receptors and broadcasting mechanics can be explained in terms of atomic interactions as well. Previously I have mentioned that two atoms can achieve a state of cognitive synchronicity by reaching a "thermal equilibrium" of signals between them, as long as they always actively and rapidly share copies of external signals with each other. The purpose of introducing this mechanic was to prevent any pair of atoms from executing two mutually contradictory actions in parallel. This whole sharing process can be represented as a sequence of binding/unbinding actions performed by each received signal's copy shortly after its initial creation. The details are illustrated below.

<004_38>

However, this is not everything there is to the idea of unification between "space" and "atom". In volume 1 and 2, I explained the quantitative nature of the protagonist's "Absorb" and "Secure" goals in terms of its distance from a resource and its distance from an obstacle, respectively. But how do we define the word "distance" within the context of the current design model, if the word "space" is not even independently defined here? If every quantitatively definable entity which constitutes the game's inner universe is an atom and there is absolutely nothing which pertains to our conventional notion of "space", how can we even measure a distance between a pair of atoms in the first place without making vague assumptions?

In order to resolve this inner conflict of meanings, one must take a step back and contemplate upon the idea of space itself.

Why do we say that we are surrounded by something called "space"? First of all, we cannot see, smell, hear, or touch a volume of space, so we cannot define space in terms of direct sensory data. However, we know that assuming the existence of "space" comes in handy whenever we feel the necessity of distinguishing occasions in which two objects are close to each other from occasions in which two objects are far away from each other (for practical purposes such as avoiding the nearest source of danger first and then avoiding others later, and so forth). In other words, our definition of "space" begins with the idea of a distance between two atoms (since atoms are the simplest objects we can imagine). Space exists because atoms exist and they are separated by a certain amount of "room for occupancy" between them.

One might argue that distance is only one of many possible dimensional measures in space, such as direction, area, volume, and others. However, it is my (potentially erroneous) conviction that all these additional concepts are only secondary to the concept of distance. For example, we can measure the direction of a line segment solely in terms of distances because, if we imagine the coordinate system's point (0,0) and point (1,0) as a pair of objects and the line segment's two endpoints as yet another pair of objects, the ratios among the pairwise distances of all of these four objects will tell us the angle of the line with respect to the coordinate system. The concept of area and volume can be derived in similar ways as well, since they can be derived from the total number of atoms in addition to the statistical distribution of their pairwise distances.

<004_39>

The next question is, how to define "distance"? Since space is defined in terms of distances, the idea of distance itself must be defined as well in order to fully explain the nature of space. And in order to figure this out, we ought to first find out an objective way of measuring a distance between two atoms - for it appears to be quite axiomatic that, if we want to define something quantitative, we must be able to measure it in a quantitative manner. One quick method of measuring a distance is to use a ruler (or any other fixed-length object), but the problem is that such a way of measurement assumes the legitimacy of the observer's sensory (visual) data as well as a predefined distance between the two tips of the ruler (which creates a circular logic by forcing us to define a distance in terms of another distance).

Defining distance as something that is proportional to the amount of time it takes for an object of a constant velocity to move from a fixed reference point to another fixed reference point seems to be a more scientific method, yet it is still bound to circular reasoning because the temporal dimension itself can be considered just yet another axis in space (which, along with the X, Y, and Z spatial axes, constitutes one unified continuum called "spacetime") as far as the theory of relativity goes, and hence requires the observer to measure the "temporal distance" between the object's two different positions at two different moments in time.

If one desires to measure a distance without either sensory bias or semantic circularity, he/she should seek a fully distance-independent causal relation between successive observations as a primary proof of the existence of distance instead. One relatively objective criterion for finding such a relation is to suppose that distance is proportional to the amount of energy it takes for a unit mass to travel from a fixed reference point to another fixed reference point. This is probably still not a fundamentally valid definition because the notion of "fixed reference point" itself indicates a spatial entity which presumes the distance between itself, the observer, and other points in space (which, again, induces circular logic), but I will stop delving into the ontological ultimacy of meanings at this point because this article is about game design and is not a treatise on metaphysics.

If we define the distance between atom B and C as the amount of energy it takes to move atom A from B to C, and further define that:

(1) Two atoms are "neighbors" to each other if at least one of them is bound to the other,
(2) An atom can only rebind itself to a neighbor of the atom to which it is currently bound, and
(3) An atom consumes the exact same quantity of energy (aka "cost") every time it rebinds itself,

<004_40>

we can then declare that the distance between atom B and C is the number of times A is required to rebind itself until it changes its binding target from B to C. This means that the so-called "distance" in space, in any discrete gameplay environment operated by a digital computer, can be defined as the minimum cost (in terms of energy) of traversing a path from one atom to the other inside a graph of atoms.

Now, what's the purpose of all this? Why not just place atoms inside a plain Euclidean space and move them freely, without esoteric notions such as "binding"? Here is the most significant reason why I chose to undertake the process of explaining all spatial concepts in terms of atoms and their bindings, despite its apparent obscurity.

At the very beginning of this series of articles (volume 1), I presumed that the instincts of any biological organism can ultimately be classified into 3 most fundamental goals called "Absorb", "Expand", and "Secure", and proceeded to claim that the "Absorb" goal motivates the organism to decrease its distance from a nearby resource, the "Expand" goal motivates the organism to increase the area of its region of influence, and the "Secure" goal motivates the organism to increase its distance from a nearby obstacle.

The "Absorb" and "Secure" goals were explained pretty easily in terms of distances between atoms. The "Expand" goal, on the other hand, was explained in terms of yet another type of spatial quantity called "area". Since an area is a secondary property which must be derived from multiple distance relations among multiple pairs of atoms instead of just a single pair, it has been quite complicated to describe the exact way in which the organism could carry out its "Expand" goal. As a result, I explained the sequence of actions required to pursue the "Expand" goal with vague specifications such as: "Go to a random position in space that is outside of your own body".

If we exclude the notion of space altogether (the method of which is what I have been expounding so far), the structure of the "Expand" goal can be synchronized with those of the other two fundamental goals ("Absorb" and "Secure") because we will then be letting any region of influence be represented by atoms, just like resources and obstacles are being represented by atoms. A lifeform's region of influence is a set of local regions in space, and such a set is equivalent to a set of atoms. Let us start referring to each constituent atom of any region of influence as an "influence" from now on.

<004_41>

The trickiest part is, how to measure the area of a region of influence? As mentioned before, since the ultimate root of the definition of the word "space" within the context of the current atom-based model is an attribute called "distance", a scalar quantity that is being referred to as "area" should be able to be computed based upon the distances among the corresponding region's component atoms. In order to identify the region's area, however, one must first be able to tell the shape of the region. And this is indeed a quite perplexing task because each atomic unit of space, in our context, is a topological being that is defined in terms of its nature of connectivity with other units instead of a uniformly sized/arranged segment which sits within a continuous field of dimensional permutations.

But, let's pause here for a bit and think about the intended usage of the concept called "area" in our purpose. Why do we want to find out the area of a region? The answer is, we need a metric which tells the game's protagonist how successful it is in terms of expanding its own region of influence. Whenever a typical Euclidean space is concerned, the area of the region of influence tends to be an obvious measure of such a type of success. The thing is, we are not dealing with a Euclidean space here, and thus do not have to force our stream of consciousness to linger upon geometric constructs such as the area of a region; all we need is a metric which reveals the organism's outgoing flux of influence that is being imposed upon the rest of the world.

This problem will be investigated in the next volume. After that, we will be able to assemble the concepts introduced so far and summarize them in the form of a single unified model.

(Will be continued in Volume 8)









:d:An article about universal laws of game design.
:k:Game, Design, Procedural, Engine, Theory, Commercial, Tech, Organism

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 8] 2023.03

(Continued from Volume 7)

Designing a game often seems to appear as a complex process. It is due to our shared impression that, while a game's individual components are not necessarily complicated, the process of assembling them together to form a holistic picture of gameplay can indeed confound anyone who is involved in it. And because of this apparent complexity, it is widely believed that the full course of game development, as a whole, can only be approached via case-by-case perceptual experiments instead of a theoretical model.

Such a shared tendency of the game development community often results in endless rounds of vague subjective statements that are hardly less superficial than: "This game's water shader looks fantastic", "This game's lore sounds intriguing", "This game's procedural dungeon generator looks cool", and so forth.

One might ask, "What's wrong with that? Isn't a game, after all, an almost entirely player-centered medium of experience? As long as we conduct a set of experiments regarding the way in which the average player interacts with the game on a perceptual level, however "superficial" it might be, wouldn't they be accurately capturing the essence of what constitutes a game?"

This line of reasoning, without a doubt, is definitely valid to a certain extent. A game is indeed a set of experiences, and therefore a designer's habit of focusing on the outer facets of gameplay bears an acute sense of priority within the methodology of how a game should be designed. After all, players do not care what is really going on inside the game; they only care what they feel about the game.

However, we should also note that the game industry has changed quite drastically during the past few decades, and that we no longer live in the 80s and 90s back when even a rudimentary arcade game (i.e. something which would hardly require a sophisticated theory as a backbone of its construction) would've had some chance of commercial success. If we were living in those good old days, simply focusing on the player's experience itself and experimenting with it in a purely iterative manner would've been a decent approach for attracting a considerable number of customers. Sadly, we are living in an era where high competition and technological advancements have rendered such a methodology quite ineffective.

Most of us are aware of how stunningly capable some of the latest AI tools are. The field of artificial intelligence has been improved so dramatically these days, that creating many of the gameplay features is becoming easier than ever. This means that a game developer can no longer stand out from the rest of the competitors simply by perfecting the qualities of the game's experiential aspects (e.g. graphics, sound, writings, immersive actions, UI/UX, etc), and that the game's internal semantic structure itself must possess its own hint of ingenuity for the sake of being able to compete with millions of other games that are up there in the market, many of which are just as competent (if not more) in terms of providing the player with a series of cheap attention-hooking experiences.

Therefore, independent developers of today's game industry are facing a new kind of challenge which could mostly be ignored by older generations of game developers (i.e. Baby Boomers and Generation X) who were privileged enough to spend their early adulthood during the infancy of videogames, which also happily coincided with the era of economic prosperity led by Pax Americana, during which they were endowed with far more opportunities in terms of finding profitable niches. The struggle of our current generation is that, if there are far too many people who are capable of developing the most immersive videogames and finding out the most optimal strategy of selling them (with the help of easy-to-use game creation tools, digital distribution platforms, and social media), the only way in which you can ever have a considerable chance of success in the field of games (unless you are blessed with enormous budget) is to transcend beyond the commonly held definition of what a game is and introduce something new to the very nature of the idea of "game" itself - that is, create a brand new niche in which you can sell your games without too much competition, since most of the existing ones are pretty much saturated.

And this train of logic originates not from a stylish notion of "Art for art's sake", but from a practical consideration which anyone who is aware of the reality of today's gaming market cannot simply refuse to acknowledge. If we desire to sell our games in today's market, we must differentiate our games from the majority of others by shifting the entire dimension of how our games are being designed.

<004_42>

And because such a monumental task requires an almost complete reconfiguration of the game's inner system, it should not be taken as a form of intellectual snobbery to say that one must undertake the process of game design in a highly scientific fashion - that is, break down the nature of gameplay into its most fundamental building blocks (e.g. atoms), and then figure out the most robust yet minimal set of ways of assembling them together to be able to design any complex system without too much hassle.

This is one of the reasons why I have been emphasizing the importance of theory in contemporary game development practices.

I could technically keep ranting about this topic indefinitely, but since the main focus of this series of articles is about formulating the theory itself rather than complaining why it is being neglected by many developers, I will resume back to where we were at in the previous volume.

So far, we have been seeing a set of conceptual evidences which led us to the notion that the entire in-game universe can be expressed as a set of atoms and their topological bindings, without any necessity of representing continuous regions in space at least within the context of mathematical reasoning. This grand unification of spatial concepts helped us simplify down the gameplay dynamics into a system that is entirely made up of discrete (i.e. computable) entities.

A biological organism, which can be considered the game's protagonist, can be thought of as an atom that is being surrounded by 3 other types of atoms - "resources", "obstacles", and "influences".

From the very beginning, it has been clearly assumed that an organism's instinct motivates it to collect resources, avoid or destroy obstacles, and expand its own region of influence. And since our gameplay model now represents the continuum of space as a set of atoms (each of which refers to a region in space), it has also been discovered that the region of influence can be expressed as a set of atoms called "influences".

<004_43>

The problem which was left unsolved at the end of the previous volume was the problem of describing how the organism should behave in regards to its influences for the purpose of expanding its region of influence. And in order to solve this, we should remind ourselves that the idea of such a type of expansion pertains to the idea of increasing the overall exposure of influence atoms against the rest of the environment.

What this means is that, in order to have a region of influence that is as wide as possible, a lifeform must allocate its influence atoms to as many positions in space as possible. And the reason behind this is that, as we start identifying influences as signal emitters whose emitted signals impact the way in which their receivers behave, we can make a rough generalization that the number of locations which are occupied by influences is a fairly reasonable measure of the overall rate of impact that the organism is imposing upon the world.

Just like resources emit their own "resource signals" and obstacles emit their own "obstacle signals", influences emit their own "influence signals".

<004_44>

And let us remind ourselves of the basic presuppositions that were made back in volume 1. According to them, any point in space which is sufficiently close to any other point in space that has recently been traversed by the organism is assumed to be part of its region of influence. A casual analogy of this would be that, if we suppose that the whole gameplay environment is just one large iron plate and the organism is a tiny ball of fire which never dwindles in strength, we can fancy that anywhere on the iron plate that is sufficiently hot is part of the organism's region of influence.

<004_45>

This theoretical model can be formulated in an intuitively satisfying manner if we suppose that:

(1) The organism emits an influence at every time step,
(2) Each influence is static (i.e. never moves),
(3) Each influence emits an "influence signal" at every time step, which propagates through space radially,
(4) Each influence destroys itself once its lifespan is over,
(5) Each "influence signal" destroys itself once its lifespan is over, and
(6) Each position in space can only hold up to exactly 1 influence, in which case it gets saturated. If the organism's current location is saturated, it won't be able to emit an influence until it goes to somewhere else that is not saturated.

The organism is an influence-emitter; it creates footsteps wherever it goes, and such footsteps are hypothetical lightbulbs which radiate the organism's forces of influence from their own points of emission until they run out of energy and die out. Altogether, their combined field of radiation can be referred to as the organism's "region of influence".

<004_46>

In this context, the question of how to increase the area of one's region of influence becomes much clearer. Although our current discrete-space model does not allow us to accurately define the word "area" in a geometric sense, we can still share an implicit consensus that the whole purpose of trying to increase the area is to increment the overall rate at which other atoms of the universe receive the organism's "influence signals". And since each position in space can only contain 1 influence at a time, the organism must always keep moving away from its current set of influences in order to maximize the rate at which it can give birth to new influences.

From this, we can easily conclude that the desire to "Expand" one's region of influence is the same thing as the desire to increase the average distance between the organism and its nearby influences. The benefit of this new definition of the "Expand" goal is that its mathematical formulation perfectly aligns with the other two fundamental goals (i.e. "Absorb" and "Secure"), in the sense that they all measure their degrees of success based upon one unified metric called "distance". This is an example of mathematical minimalism.

<004_47>

And the principle of additive composition, which was mentioned along with the principle of mathematical minimalism, can be satisfied as well by separating out the responsibilities of individual atoms (by forcing each of them to follow only one of the three fundamental goals) and then assembling them together to form compound objects. Potential conflicts among the respective goals of these atoms can easily be resolved via signal-based decision protocols, as demonstrated in volume 6.

<004_48>

There are more details we have to consider in order to make this model work, however.

When there are two atoms called A and B, one may imagine that B is an obstacle of A. Let us, for the sake of convenience, simply assume that it really is the case. The main problem with this imagination-driven approach to game design, though, is that it requires us to manually devise all sorts of complex relations among all types of atoms that can ever exist inside the game, which is such a pain that we want to avoid.

It is indeed possible to come up with a clever shortcut to mitigate the workload of such a manual way of design, such as assigning keywords to atoms and then constructing logical relations among such keywords. For example, one may say that a fire-atom and a lava-atom both have the keyword "hot", and that any atom which has the keyword "cold" must be an obstacle of any atom which has the keyword "hot". This way, one can automatically ensure that both a fire-atom and a lava-atom will be able to recognize any "cold" atom an obstacle, without having to manually specify a relation between every pair of unique atoms.

<004_49>

Even a shortcut like this, however, is bound by the limitations of qualitative evaluation. We may say that cold atoms are obstacles of hot atoms because coldness (lack of heat) has a tendency of taking thermal energy away from hot atoms and thus impairing their ability to preserve their own identity of hotness, but this sort of direct rational reasoning only applies to strictly mechanical circumstances. When we are defining relations between atoms that are not only mechanical but also narrative in nature, we cannot simply assume that the causal origins of such relations will always present themselves as self-evident in an intuitively satisfying manner.

Relations that are tricky to derive are often found in cases in which atoms are endowed with characteristics that are not strictly quantifiable. Suppose that there is a wizard who firmly believes that the entire world must be filled with donuts and nothing else, and that the ultimate purpose of his life is to convert every object he saw into a donut by casting a magic spell. He never eats a donut because such an act would reduce the overall ratio of donuts over the total number of objects in the universe, so the process of making donuts does not provide this man with any physiological benefit. The only thing which motivates him to keep transforming everything into a donut is his mysterious belief alone, which does not seem to be stemming from any further ground of logic.

In such a case, any atom that is not a donut must be identified as an obstacle to the wizard because he is apparently resolved to increase the average distance between himself and all things that are not donuts by sending them to the heaven (i.e. erasing them from the domain of existence by converting them to donuts). And when someone questions the reasoning behind such an establishment of relations, all we can say is, "It is just the way this guy thinks".

Abstract beliefs which do not directly pertain to changes in the distribution of physical assets (e.g. food, money, natural resources, etc) are quite tricky to deal with when it comes to organizing them in a quantitative (therefore systematically expandable) way. We can of course specify them somehow and create a rigid framework of logic on top of such specifications (e.g. Statements such as: "Any atom which does not have the keyword 'Donut' in it is an obstacle of any atom which has the keyword 'Wizard' in it", and so forth), yet this brute-force approach is exactly the kind of complexity we ought to avoid in order to prevent the whole design scheme from turning itself into an encyclopedia of case-by-case scenarios.

Fortunately, nothing apparently blocks us from saying that abstract beliefs hardly differ from those that are based on biological needs when it comes to identifying their causal origins on an atomic level. Just because something is abstract does not mean that it is required to follow a fundamentally different structure of logic from things that are concrete (e.g. need for food).

But for the purpose of precisely analyzing what is really going on underneath the surface of this mysterious concept called "belief", one must first revisit the suggested definitions of "resource" and "obstacle" which were stated back in volume 1. Supposing that there is an atom which represents a biological organism, we may say that a "resource" is any atom which adds energy to it, and that an "obstacle" is any atom which subtracts energy from it. A purely atomic ground of reasoning from which these definitions arise would be that there are atoms which represent units of energy, whose owner is the atom to which they are bound (That is, if there are N energy atoms bound to the organism, we can say that the amount of energy that can be used by the organism is N). And it is also pretty reasonable to assume that at least one of these energy atoms must be unbound from its owner whenever the owner executes an action (e.g. movement), since an action obviously requires energy to be consumed.

<004_50>

Based on this model, one can derive purely discrete and computable definitions of resources and obstacles.

Let us start with resources. A resource is an atom which, when sufficiently close to the observer, adds energy atoms to the observer's body. One potentially misleading assumption is that a resource must be carrying at least one energy atom it can donate. However, we should note that there could be entities which are identified as "resources" by the observer without actually having any morsel of energy it is currently able to give off, such as empty treasure boxes or empty fuel cans whose emptiness is not known beforehand.

It is more of the perceived possibility of giving energy to the observer which makes an atom a resource. A lottery can be considered a resource not necessarily because it has any money (i.e. financial energy) that is guaranteed to be delivered to the consumer right off the bat, but because it is deemed to reserve a certain amount of money which may be given to the consumer under the condition of "winning a lottery".

What does this mean in our atom-based gameplay model? A resource may or may not possess an energy atom which is capable of transferring its ownership to the observer, yet it is required that the observer believes that it does (because an empty treasure box whose emptiness is known is clearly not a resource, as well as a full treasure box that is somehow considered empty). Defining the presence of such a belief, though, is a tricky business due to its nature of subjectivity.

However, there are also clues which may let us grasp a better picture of what is going on. From a realist point of view, one may claim that there is something called "objective truth" in our world which is separate from our personal beliefs. As long as we are arguing based upon this context of reasoning, we can definitely say that each belief is either "true" or "false" depending on whether it aligns with our universe's absolute body of truth or not. This worldview is of course questionable because we define most of our knowledge of what is true or false (if not all) based off of what we can observe through our own perspectives, which is subjective in itself and is therefore not an accurate method of evaluating the objectives themselves. But the idea of a domain of pure truth that is invariant of what we believe is, however fictional it might be, a convenient way of organizing and classifying a wide assortment of beliefs in a consistent manner since it presents us with a fixed reference point to which we can anchor our definitions.

The "objective truth" of whether an atom is a resource or not depends on whether the atom really contains at least one energy particle that is capable of being handed off to the observer. On the other hand, it is also sensible to say that whether it is considered a resource from the observer's viewpoint depends on whether the observer believes in the presence of such energy particle. The main issue is that discovering an accurate causal connection between the objective truth and the observer's interpretation of it is an enormous challenge, for it is being determined by numerous parameters such as the observer's background knowledge, scope of observation (e.g. field of view, line of sight, etc), state of consciousness (e.g. hallucination, fatigue, etc), and so on. This depth of reasoning may convolute the game design process a bit too much at least during the early prototyping phase.

I would say that it must be reasonable, therefore, to find a nice middle ground between the subjectivity of the observer and the objectivity of things that are really happening inside our gameplay universe.

And here is the catch. Since the objectiveness of truth within the context of gameplay is nothing more than part of one grand fiction whose scope of logical associations is limited to the boundaries of whichever game we are designing, the degree of solidity of the objective truth itself can be whatever we want it to be. That is, the state of being uncertain can itself be an atomic constituent of truth in our fictional world.

A treasure box whose inner content is simply "undefined" prior to the moment of being opened is just as valid a constituent of a fictional universe as one whose inner content has been fully specified beforehand. The outcome of opening the box can simply be defined by the result of rolling a dice which happens right at the moment of opening it, and such a "deferred state of truth" will not contradict any logical construct as long as the outcome never fails to solidify itself when directly observed and does so in a consistent manner so that multiple observers under the same circumstance are always bound to observe it the same way.

<004_51>

Within the aforementioned context, a closed treasure box whose content is unknown to the observer can be assumed to contain something that is fundamentally undefined from the objective standpoint as long as the concept of being "undefined" is allowed to be part of the game's domain of objective truth; this "something" can be described as the potential for the treasure box to donate at least one energy atom to the observer. The presence of an energy atom and its transferability is undefined as long as the box is closed (not just "unknown", but "undefined" in the objective sense), yet the probability that such an energy atom may exist is a defined piece of information which clearly "exists" within the context of our reasoning and thus entitles us to call this box a "resource".

To summarize, I would say that an atom can be defined as a "resource" as long as it carries a potential for giving off energy to the observer, regardless of whether the existence of such capability is defined before the moment of observation. Likewise, an atom can be defined as an "obstacle" as long as it carries a potential for stealing energy from the observer, regardless of whether the existence of such capability is defined before the moment of observation.

In the next volume, I will delve into this new idea called "potential", and explain how it simplifies the nature of atom-to-atom relations down to a purely mechanical set of patterns. This will eventually even allow highly narrative scenarios to be broken down to a group of mechanics, thereby proving the feasibility of coming up with a "universal language" which unifies the language of narratives and the language of mechanics into one shared faculty of reasoning.

(Will be continued in Volume 9)







:d:An article about universal laws of game design.
:k:Game, Videogame, Design, Cognitive, Science, AAA, Indie, System, Engineering

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 9] 2023.03

(Continued from Volume 8)

So far, we have been encountering the difficulty of representing not only the mechanics but also the narratives of the game in a computationally interpretable form. Since a game is a fairly sophisticated architecture made up of both mechanics and narratives which constantly reinforce each other in an interactive way, it is crucial to ensure that we are able to formulate a unified language upon which both of these two opposing faculties of knowledge can collaborate together as a whole.

The main struggle with the attempts to represent the game's narratives in a purely mathematical (thus translatable to mechanics) format belongs to their apparent image of vagueness. They often involve emotional components such as joy, sorrow, jealousy, remorse, enlightenment, and many others, as well as personalities, beliefs, worldviews, senses that are either observed or not observed, thoughts that are either conceived or not conceived, and so on.

Such a vast field of complexity, in general, tends to compel the designer to develop the narrative elements of the game in a rather experimental manner for the purpose of avoiding ungrounded speculations, which derives the basis of its reasoning from the engagement of the player on a cognitive level and measures the relative degree of success of each design approach in terms of its most directly measurable outcomes such as the intensity and time of engagement.

It may also be argued, however, that such a cognition-centered methodology has widely been practiced by AAA game companies and other large institutions which are armed with countless experts in the area of manipulative psychology (whom a small group of independent developers can hardly compete with). If one is to undertake a journey of becoming an indie developer, therefore, being able to design a game whose degree of competence in the marketplace lies on a distinct dimension of measurement that is somehow differentiable from the brute-force power of dopamine addiction is more or less a pragmatic necessity.

For this reason, a design process that is of any considerable value in this oversaturated industry ought to possess some form of metaphysical insight which goes deeper into the fundamental nature of narratives and mechanics themselves, rather than focusing on the outer surface of their cognitive effects.

Such an insight should not be confused with the so-called "artistic endeavors", however, which are carelessly coined by amateurs who feign the integrity of their imagination based upon the mere ambiguity of the way in which they associate their ideas. Such an undisciplined sort of self-expression, which bases its value on the aesthetics of one's own fashionable ego, usually does not lead to the proof of its uniqueness because there are way too many of them who desperately clamor in unison to let the rest of the world know how "creative" they are.

If we are rationally minded individuals who make decisions out of some form of logic rather than an amorphous cloud of emotional impulses, it should not be an overstatement to say that an attempt to design a game that is commercially viable yet still distinguishes itself from the most common niche of today's game industry (which is highly empirical in nature) should begin with the imaginative power of pure mathematics as well as its philosophical origin - for it is an intuitively fitting notion that a body of a priori knowledge which excludes mathematics from its domain of reasoning easily veers towards an abyss of vagueness and thus disrupts the game's structural integrity.

And in order for such a line of reasoning to invariably apply to the full process of game development, we ought to make sure that both the narratives and mechanics of the gameplay, as well as their back-and-forth interactions, are representable in terms of mathematical entities.

In the last volume, we witnessed the difficulty of defining and measuring volitional (psychological) forces of gameplay agents as opposed to forces which solely belong to the domain of pure mechanics (e.g. motion, heat, gravity, chemical reactions, etc). Such a challenge seemed to suggest at first that drawing the complete anatomy of narrative elements in a system-oriented manner is an impossible task, but later on we also saw that they do not necessarily have to differ from mechanics on a fundamental level. The reason behind this bold statement of wholeness lies on the notion that, in the vast majority of cases, narratives stem from motivations and motivations stem from the idea of energy exchange.

<004_52>

One might argue that some of the sources of narratives such as purely abstract emotions have nothing to do with the concept of "energy", yet such a statement can be considered valid only if we suppose that the word "energy" always refers to its conventional use cases such as generation/consumption of electricity, petroleum, foods, and other physical entities.

Since energy is something that is defined in terms of a causal relation among observations (i.e. An underlying pattern of nature which causes a group of observations at one point in time to be associated with another group of observations at a different point in time) instead of the sense-data of individual observations themselves, we may claim that any observable phenomenon which bears a hint of such a relation can be assumed to involve some form of energy transfer. And as far as I can tell, there has not been a decisive reason to assume that such causal phenomena must be confined to those which are considered physical, as opposed to those which are considered mental.

The energy-oriented reasoning leads us to the idea that not only mechanical but also narrative elements of gameplay are capable of being defined in the form of energy exchange, as long as we do not limit the scope of our definition of the term "energy" to those which pertain to the study of physics.

As we all know, there are different kinds of energy such as those that are gravitational, electrical, thermal, nuclear, and so forth. This makes it quite logically sound to say that it is okay for us to expand this collection of energy types by adding new ones to it in order to fit our design purposes, especially because what we are designing is a fictional universe in which the very definition of "real" as opposed to "unreal" is more or less arbitrary. For example, it is perfectly sensical to imagine abstract forms of energy such as "emotional energy", "financial energy" (i.e. monetary value), and many others which have the ability to modify the state of causality of the system.

<004_53>

Time, too, can be interpreted as a form of energy, and one may fancy that any object which is willing to change its current location does so by spending its time-energy (because it takes time for an object to move, unless it is capable of instantaneous teleportation). This backs up my previous claim that a distance in space can be measured in terms of the amount of energy spent by an object while it travels from one point to another; even in case where there is absolutely no force field (e.g. gravity) or medium of friction (e.g. air) surrounding the object, which would let it simply move through the continuum of space based upon its own inertia without requiring any change in its potential/kinetic forms of energy, it is still bound to consume a certain number of time-energy particles for every unit distance it travels.

<004_54>

How to determine the rules of exchange among energy particles, then? For this question, I would say that it is generally fine to presume that abstract types of energy which belong to the domain of psychological interactions follow the same exact rules as the ones that are obeyed by physical types (because I have not yet perceived a case in which such a supposition should be considered logically contradictory).

In the last volume, I suggested the feasibility of the existence of what is called a "potential". A potential is essentially an indivisible container which may or may not have an energy atom bound to itself; it possesses the ability to receive, store, and emit an energy atom of a specific type which might pertain to the interests of the observer, without necessarily letting the observer know whether or not it is currently available.

<004_55>

When there are two potentials that are sufficiently close to each other (i.e. separated by at most 1 binding), one may expect energy atoms to travel from one potential to the other. In order to specify the direction of energy transfer without devising truckloads of arbitrary rules, however, we need to understand the concept of energy levels.

<004_56>

There are different levels in each type of energy. Gravitational energy, for example, has its energy levels allocated to different altitudes of space with respect to the center of the Earth. When a ball gets lifted up into the sky, its gravitational energy level increases (because the altitude is higher). And when it falls down to the ground, its gravitational energy level decreases (because the altitude is lower). Therefore, it makes sense for us to say that the ball is an energy atom which belongs to either a potential which is located at the ground or a potential which is located at the sky depending on how far away it is from the center of the Earth. Hence it is also sensible to state, due to the apparent nature of gravity which we all agree upon, that such an energy atom has a tendency of always moving towards a lower energy level than the current one to which it belongs, as long as there is no counteracting force which prevents it.

<004_57>

This tendency is universally present in all energy types. Electrical charges move from higher to lower electrical energy levels (which allows us to run electric circuits), and heat moves from higher to lower thermal energy levels which results in eventual thermal equilibrium. Abstract units of energy (e.g. time), too, have their own levels allocated to various points in spacetime, across which they travel in the descending order.

<004_58>

If we let each potential have its own energy level, therefore, it will be reasonable to claim that an energy atom which is bound to a potential of level N will automatically rebind itself to any other potential of level X (where X < N) which is at most 1 binding apart from the level-N potential.

Also, our observations in gravitational phenomena tell us that an agent of an energy field always follows the shortest route in terms of reducing its own energy level. That is, an uninterrupted ball always falls directly towards the center of the Earth because it is the line of displacement which guarantees the highest rate of reduction in its gravitational energy level. Thus, we can conclude that an energy atom which is bound to a level-N potential always automatically rebinds itself to any other adjacent potential of level X which satisfies both of the following conditions:

(1) X < N
(2) X is the smallest of the levels of all potentials that are adjacent to the aforementioned level-N potential.

(Note: "Adjacent" means that two potentials are separated by at most 1 atomic binding.)

<004_59>

One question which may arise is, "What happens after all energy atoms reach their lowest possible energy levels? Won't this stall the entire system because there will no longer be any transfer of energy?" And this doubt is perfectly reasonable because it should indeed be the case if only the pattern stated above constitutes the dynamics of the gameplay system. Eventually, all energy atoms will settle down in their ultimate state of equilibrium and no more event will happen thereafter; this is a theoretical analogue of the so-called "heat death" of our universe.

Let us note, however, that our game world does not have to be a completely closed system. We may assume the existence of external forces which revive dead energy particles (i.e. those which have fallen to their lowest possible levels) by sending them back to their highest levels by means of two special kinds of potentials - sinks and sources.

<004_60>

A sink is a potential which has the lowest possible energy level, whereas a source is a potential which has the highest possible energy level. A sink follows a special way of energy transfer which differs from that of all other potentials - that is, an energy atom which enters a sink always instantly gets transported to one of the sources which exist within the gameplay world, despite the fact that a source's energy level is higher than that of a sink. This scheme may sound contradictory to our reasoning of the direction in which energy is always bound to propagate (i.e. from high potential to low potential), yet the logic makes perfect sense if we assume that there is an external power supply which constantly provides a stream of force which "recharges" the most exhausted energy particles back to their most excited state. We can think of a sink and a source as the two ends of a battery in an electric circuit.

<004_61>

So, with the presence of potentials and their recycling mechanism, we now have a system which is able to maintain its own perpetual cycle of dynamic events. Energy atoms flow from upstream to downstream inside the vast network of potentials, more or less periodically circulating back to the top of the upstream with the aid of sinks/sources.

However, a game is something more than just a physics simulation and is therefore required to support the emergence of active agents and their motive-driven energy exchanges. The reason behind this is that gameplay begins with the conceptual division between the self and the rest of the world. Both the player and NPCs are decision-making entities (e.g. biological organisms) as opposed to rudimentary mechanical bodies which only react to impulses on a short-term case by case basis, and such a hint of inner complexity can be realized by separating out each character's inventory of energy particles from those which belong to the outside of its own body. Under this hypothetical division, we can easily imagine that an active gameplay agent's own set of goals and actions directly correlate to instances of direct energy transfer which occur between the inside and outside of the agent's existential boundary, each of which can be defined as a constituent of an exchange of energy particles (aka "transaction").

<004_62>

The concept of exchange is trickier to define than mere flux of energy from high to low potentials, due to its nature of bidirectionality and simultaneity. And for this reason, we must take extra precautions not to convolute our definitions too much while constructing the mathematical foundation of what an exchange is.

Let us first consider the mechanic of autonomous movement as an example. An organism (such as an animal) moves itself by giving off one of its kinetic energy atoms and receiving a chance to modify its current position in return. This is probably the most basic yet also the most significant type of exchange due to the fact that a movement is the most fundamental unit of action one can ever imagine (as explained in volume 2).

<004_63>

First of all, it is not hard to guess that the consumption of kinetic energy can be explained as an event in which a kinetic energy atom transfers itself from a relatively high kinetic potential to a relatively low kinetic potential, given that a condition which allows the occurrence of such an event is present. If we apply this same exact mode of interpretation to the phenomenon of locomotion, we should be able to hypothesize that the organism (i.e. subject of motion) itself can be imagined as an energy atom, and that its present and future spatial locations can be imagined as having potentials in them that are capable of transmitting energy.

Supposing that there is a special type of energy called "locomotive energy", one may fancy that a voluntary mover's initial location of movement temporarily becomes an owner of a high-level locomotive potential, while its final location of movement temporarily becomes an owner of a low-level locomotive potential, and that the moving agent itself is a locomotive energy particle which follows the stream of locomotive potentials in the most rapidly descending order. Meanwhile, it should also be assumed that the mover temporarily becomes an owner of a kinetic sink in order to dissipate one of its kinetic energy particles while moving.

<004_64>

Since a voluntary movement is not something which occurs naturally without any psychological determination, it must be triggered by a process of motivation. In our hypothetical model, this phenomenon can be interpreted as a temporary addition of a set of atoms to the system, which immediately get taken back as soon as they invoke the desired action.

This is how a simultaneous exchange of energy particles is able to take place within the context of an autonomous agent and its surrounding environment. The agent motivates itself (i.e. adds a specific set of potentials to the scene), follows its own motivation (i.e. waits for a moment to let the energy atoms transfer themselves to lower potentials), and then terminates its own motivation (i.e. removes the potentials it just added). The end result of this 3-step process is an exchange between 1 outgoing kinetic energy atom and 1 incoming locomotive energy atom, which is reminiscent of exchanging one currency with another inside a bank.

In the next volume, we will delve into the nature of exchange in more detail.

(Will be continued in Volume 10)







:d:An article about universal laws of game design.
:k:Game, Videogame, Motivation, Demotivation, Atomic, Atomism, Physics, Psychology

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 10] 2023.04

(Continued from Volume 9)

When we think about the nature of the word "game", we often come to the conclusion that a game is a network of goals and their respective actions. The player (or any equivalent gameplay agent) recognizes a list of goals to pursue, and endeavors to complete these goals by carrying out a list of actions.

Actions do not come for free, however, since it is obvious that the absence of cost would enable the player to achieve goals without even the slightest allusion of difficulty, which is clearly an undesirable trait for an interactive medium such as a game. Therefore, actions which are part of the process of fulfilling one's in-game goals should involve exchanges of entities that are limited in quantity.

In the previous volume, we saw the possibility of modeling the concept of exchange in terms of potentials and their respective energy particles. Energy descends the stream of potentials from high to low energy levels, as suggested by the laws of nature we are capable of witnessing every day. And as long as we suppose that an active gameplay agent (e.g. player) is able to temporarily add a set of new potentials to the system for the purpose of transferring a set of energy atoms in a certain way for a brief moment, it must be logically sound for us to imagine that the agent triggers an action by applying a specific set of potentials, waiting for a moment to let the energy atoms rebind themselves, and then destroying the applied potentials. Such an act of application can be referred to as "motivation", and the act of the subsequent destruction can be referred to as "demotivation", for it is sensible to consider a voluntary action as an event which requires the presence of a motive.

<005_01>

A process of motivation and its subsequent cancellation (i.e. demotivation), which represents the start and end of an agent-driven action, signifies a momentary jump of energy from one spot to the other in a highly discrete manner (like a single drop of water which falls from a briefly lifted tap), as opposed to a continuous flow of energy which occurs through a long descending series of persistent potentials.

Such a discrete instance of energy transfer is a component of an exchange, since a singular exchange is defined in terms of quantitative changes that are impulsive rather than continuous. And since any specific in-game action (e.g. "Collect this gem", "Kill this enemy", etc) can ultimately be broken down to a sequence of atomic movements and each of them is a constituent of an energy transfer (as long as we suppose that every atom is some kind of energy particle), we can say that any in-game action is made out of exchanges.

<005_02>

We have seen that a momentary energy transfer is realized by a process of motivation and demotivation, which respectively correspond to the addition and removal of a specific set of potentials. It seems convenient, therefore, to fancy that such a set of potentials and the way in which they get added, as a whole, constitute the definition of the term "motive"; that is, an agent triggers an energy transfer by adding a motive, and terminates it by removing the motive that was added.

<005_03>

And depending on the type of energy transfer, there could be different types of motives each of which has its own unique molecular structure. It is not so rash to imagine that one can conceive a wide spectrum of chemical laws out of this.

But before delving directly into this vast pond of possibilities, let us go back to the initial line of reasoning which gave birth to the idea of energies, potentials, and their respective laws of interaction. Initially, it all began with the problem of identifying atoms that are resources as opposed to atoms that are obstacles. And based on the definition that a resource is something which is capable of giving energy to the observer and an obstacle is something which is capable of taking energy away from the observer, I have suggested the existence of special atoms called "potentials" as well as energy particles which automatically ride upon and traverse them from higher levels to lower levels, as means of fully explaining the causal origin of resources and obstacles.

From the laws of nature and their quantitative patterns we have sensed so far, one can fairly easily imagine that an atom could either be identified as a resource or an obstacle depending on the type and level of a potential it happens to possess.

<005_04>

Let us suppose that the observer has two potentials (of type "X" and "kinetic") and their corresponding energy particles. The idea is, the observer is interested in gaining new X energy atoms by spending its own kinetic energy atoms; so any event which involves the incoming of X energy and outcoming of kinetic energy is a desirable form of exchange for the observer.

As long as the aforementioned supposition holds, we can safely assume that any atom which is close enough to the observer and is carrying a potential of type X may be able to let the observer issue an exchange which aligns with such an interest, depending on the potential's relative energy level. Triggering an exchange which involves a transfer of X energy between such an atom and the observer, from the observer's side of actions, can be carried out by means of motivation - that is, by adding a temporary X potential between the two participants of the exchange, which works as a bridge that connects the two roads of transportation (because an energy atom cannot jump across potentials that are separated by distances greater than 1).

<005_05>

Since we do not want the player to be able to create a perpetual motion machine from which one can extract infinite energy, it must be the case that every observer-issued energy transfer requires some form of cost on the observer's side (aka "transaction fee"). Therefore, it is reasonable to expect that any process of motivation must simultaneously add a kinetic sink which drains one of the kinetic energy particles of the observer whenever it adds a potential that has at least a bit of possibility of bringing extra energy of another type into the observer's body.

And the difference between the energy level of the observer's X potential and that of the neighboring atom's X potential, by nature of the directionality of energy transfer (i.e. which always points from high to low level), can be said to either bear the possibility of donating X energy to the observer or stealing X energy from the observer upon exchange, depending on whether its value is positive or negative.

For example, let us say that the observer's X potential has level "n" and that the other atom's X potential has level "n+1". In this case, the observer is able to create a continuous ramp of X potentials that is tilted inwards by adding an X potential between itself and the other atom with a level that is the average value between "n" and "n+1" (i.e. "n+0.5"). Such a creation, of course, comes with a bit of kinetic energy cost.

<005_06>

If the other atom's X potential contains an X energy particle, then, it will automatically flow into the observer's X potential during the span of 2 discrete time steps (First step transfers the particle from the other atom's X potential to the local space's X potential, and the second step transfers the particle from the local space's X potential to the observer's X potential). If the other atom's X potential does not contain an X energy particle, on the other hand, such a flow will fail to occur.

<005_07>

The thing is, though, that the other atom can still be considered as having some probability of giving off X energy particles to the observer as long as its own possession of X energy particles is either not known by the observer or simply undefined. This enables us to identify the atom as a "resource" solely based upon the characteristics of its X potential and not its inner content.

The aforementioned interaction, which is basically an exchange between an X energy particle and a kinetic energy particle from the observer's perspective, can be illustrated in the form of a diagram shown below. X energy enters the "inside" of the agent's body, and kinetic energy gets released to the "outside" of the agent's body in a strictly simultaneous fashion.

<005_08>

What if the other atom's X potential has level "n-1", a value that is less than "n"? In this opposite scenario, what we are expected to witness is that there will be no direct way of establishing a bridge between the observer and the other atom in a way in which the other atom's X energy particle can manage to travel towards the observer on its own (since an energy atom does not voluntarily climb up a staircase of energy levels).

<005_09>

Instead, any presence of a bridge will induce the observer's X energy particle (if there is any) to move towards the other atom due to the fact that the ramp of energy levels is, in this case, inclined towards the other atom instead of the observer. This makes the other atom qualify as an "obstacle"; it has a tendency to steal energy from the observer as soon as the right condition (i.e. bridge) is given.

<005_10>

This opposite kind of interaction, too, can be classified as an exchange, although its outcome may be deemed far unfairer than that of an interaction with a resource. An exchange with an obstacle almost always involves far more loss in energy than gain (if there is any gain at all), and therefore one might question the legitimacy of the above scenario by saying, "Wait, why on earth would the observer ever want to lay a bridge between itself and an obstacle, if it cannot be expected to bring any benefit at all?"

<005_11>

And such a point of reasoning is indeed valid, except that there are many other probable causes which may trigger the same exact sort of exchange as the one depicted above. For instance, the obstacle itself could be an active agent which, upon arrival of the observer, recognizes it as a resource (because n is greater than n-1) and thus puts an "n-0.5" under the shared local space in order to extract energy from the observer. Also, the observer itself may be having a status condition which automatically induces it to lose X energy by laying a bridge to whichever obstacle it encounters (thermal dissipation could be an example of this).

There may as well be cases where the observer's local space itself possesses a potential by default. In such a case, one may say that it is the spatial region itself which can be identified as either a resource or an obstacle, depending on whether its potential's energy level is greater than or less than that of the observer's. If a space is either a resource or an obstacle, it is not hard for us to imagine that an energy transfer between itself and the observer will occur automatically (without even having to add a motive) as soon as the observer enters the space. This is because the distance between an atom and its binding target is only 1, which is a sufficiently small distance for an energy particle to jump between its potential and the other's potential.

<005_12>

Things are not always black and white, however. There could be a condition in which the observer's local space is being shared by both a resource and an obstacle, or there could be a condition in which the local space itself exhibits both the behavior of a resource and the behavior of an obstacle by containing potentials of both kinds. Such ambivalent circumstances fit the conventional definition of the word "exchange"; an agent may choose to be involved in an exchange not necessarily because it is bound to result in either strict gain or strict loss, but rather because it allows the agent to sacrifice one type of energy for the acquirement of another.

<005_13>

The purpose of the theoretical formulation which I have been undertaking so far is to prove that it is possible to come up with dynamic patterns of motivation (hence their underlying narratives) without having to devise a long list of arbitrary rules. Agents which comprise the gameplay universe, whether they be physical or abstract, can be expressed in terms of atoms, and their energy level differences give them reasons to motivate themselves to modify the arrangement of potentials for the purpose of gaining desired energy particles while getting rid of those that are unnecessary.

It is time for us, however, to go back to the initial example of the complexity of psychological phenomena which seemed to prevent the designer from quantitatively modeling an agent's volitional tendencies. The wizard I mentioned in volume 8, who possesses a mysterious desire to convert everything into a donut, initially gave an impression that the origin of his motivation is only explicable through the context of a lore - that is, a rich background story which illustrates the reason why he is so obsessed with donuts in particular.

To be honest, I do concede that it is not quite feasible to fully explain the ultimate causal root of the wizard's strange attachment to donuts solely by means of pure mathematical definitions (It might eventually turn out be possible, yet approaching such an objective seems to be too daunting a task for now). However, it should also be noted that at least the underlying motive of the wizard's donut-summoning behavior itself can be abstracted out into an indivisible entity (i.e. an "atomic idea"), which can then fit into the mechanical inner workings of the system as a discrete building block.

Let us suppose that this donut-loving wizard is an atom which possesses a special kind of energy called "magic energy". He stores his own magic energy (aka "mana") inside his supernatural battery called "magic potential", and whenever he casts a spell, this battery discharges a bit and consumes 1 magic energy particle. Let us also imagine that this wizard is currently standing right in front of an atom that is not a donut (aka "non-donut"), and that he desperately wants to transform this atom into a donut. How shall we explain the nature of motivation involved in here, as well as its subsequent result?

<005_14>

Unlike the previous example which demonstrated the problem of identifying resources and obstacles, this one is a bit tricky because it apparently involves a conversion of one type of atom to another. Since potentials and their resultant paths of energy flow only explain the nature of motion and not the internal chemistry of atoms themselves, one might be tempted to say that the only way to model a process of transformation is to represent both a donut and a non-donut as a molecular structure that is made up of multiple atoms, whose internal rearrangement allows the whole structure to be renamed from "non-donut" to "donut", or vice versa. However, there is a simpler way.

<005_15>

In volume 2, I mentioned that any object which "exists" can be thought of as being contained inside a real space, whereas any object which "does not exist" can be thought of as being contained inside an imaginary space. Based upon this hypothetical pair of definitions, I claimed that the process of creating an object is an equivalent of moving it from imaginary space to real space, and that the process of destroying an object is an equivalent of moving it from real space to imaginary space.

Since the process of converting a non-donut to a donut is the same thing as destroying a non-donut and creating a donut at the same time, we can say that the wizard is capable of transforming a non-donut into a donut as long as he is capable of simultaneously moving a non-donut from real space to imaginary space while moving a donut from imaginary space to real space. This will be possible if the wizard's current position in space not only belongs to a real space, but also to an imaginary space within which both a non-donut potential and a donut potential coexist in parallel. In a way, we may call the wizard a "semi-mythical" being due to the fact that he is situated within the area of intersection between the real and imaginary parts of the universe. And based upon this notion, one may fancy that many of the paranormal activities, such as shape-shifting, are directed by agents who reside in the zone of limbo between the borderline of reality and the borderline of imagination.

<005_16>

With the application of an appropriate motive, then, the wizard is able to convert any nearby non-donut into a donut by means of inducing both the non-donut and an imaginary donut to fall down through their own streams of descending potentials. The precise mechanic of this motivational procedure, which may as well be identified as a spell-casting activity, is illustrated above.

At this point, one might ask, "Where does the motive itself come from? Surely it cannot just pop out of nowhere without any apparent physical cause." My answer would be that the atoms which constitute the motive themselves are motivational energy particles which follow their own downward paths of "motivational potentials". Such potentials are part of the wizard's (i.e. motive-creator's) inner mind and thus are completely invisible from a physical standpoint. And any change in one's motives is caused by changes in the shapes of such downward paths, which are themselves results of motivations that are applied from the external environment. In other words, motives which naturally occur from the physical surroundings continuously modify the arrangement of potentials within the observer's mind, and motives which occur from the observer's mind continuously modify the arrangement of potentials within the physical surroundings. This is a perpetual back-and-forth cycle of motivation which happens between the inside and outside of the observer's existential boundary.

In the next volume, we will see how the model developed so far applies to a variety of in-game activities, as well as how it promises to simplify down the overall design process.

(Will be continued in Volume 11)









:d:An article about videogame design and its universal patterns.
:k:Game, Videogame, Design, Computational, Biology, Evolution, Simulation, Modelling

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 11] 2023.04

(Continued from Volume 10)

So far, quite a number of concepts have been proposed for the purpose of building an abstract yet universal model of gameplay. Starting from volume 1, I have suggested the possibility of breaking down the goals of any active gameplay agent into 3 major categories - Absorb, Expand, and Secure. And by means of subsequent theoretical development, I have reached the conclusion that these three fundamental goals can be defined in terms of the agent's spatial distances (i.e. costs of traversal) from the 3 distinct classes of atoms that are called "resources", "influences", and "obstacles", respectively.

Suppose that the player (aka "myself") is the only active agent of our interest inside the game world (as it is typically the case in most single-player games). In this case, there is only one focal point of observation throughout the whole course of the game's narrative. The entire universe revolves around the player and always puts him/her at the center of the scope of observation, and the narrative space itself can be summarized as the ensemble of the player and his/her relationships with other entities of the universe.

However, the player is not necessarily interested in all types of entities; the kind of entities which are taken into consideration by the player are ones which belong to at least one of the three categories that are commonly referred to as "resources", "influences", and "obstacles", due to the reason that they are directly related to the main character's ultimate purpose in life.

<005_17>

Simply speaking (with a bit of generalization), one may say that the ultimate purpose of any living thing is to increase the size of its "region of influence" as much as possible, which can be done by creating offspring, being present in many places, or by employing any other means of influencing the present set of events whose causal chain reactions may ripple through the tree of future events, in a manner which fits the organism's belief system. And in volume 8, the reinterpretation of the very notion of the concept called "space" allowed us to claim that the desire to maximize the area of one's region of influence can at least be roughly translated into the desire to maximize the total number of one's influence atoms. And we also witnessed the subsequent conclusion that, as long as each position in space has a limited capacity of influence atoms, a creator who constantly strives to generate such influences should endeavor to maximize its average distance from itself and its already made influence atoms (in order to "spread them out" as much as possible).

<005_18>

The problem of increasing or decreasing one's distance from other atoms of a certain class, however, more or less strictly belongs to the mechanical aspects of the game; that is, one's desire to increase or decrease a scalar quantity called "distance" is more of a specific instruction that tells the agent which particular actions ought to be taken in order to achieve a goal, rather than something that is an intrinsic part of the goal itself.

So when trying to design the semantic core of the game's narratives, we need to temporarily forget the distance-based formulation of the agent's three fundamental goals and simply focus on their psychological origins.

The "Expand" goal, for example, can be described as one's desire to increment the total number of influences. Somebody might ask, "What exactly are influences, anyways?". The answer is, it differs from character to character. If there is a wizard who believes that the only purpose in his life is to turn everything into a donut, we may say that any atom which can be classified as a donut should be considered one of his influences. This makes sense because any abundance of donuts, in this context, would signify the success of the wizard in terms of influencing the world in his own desired way.

The "Absorb" goal can be described as one's desire to be in touch with as many resources as possible, where each resource is basically an atom that is capable of donating certain types of energy particles which induce the agent to increase its total number of influences. For instance, any atom which is able to grant magic energy to the wizard (such as a mana battery) must be identified as a resource, since more availability of magic energy particles means more chances for the wizard to convert a non-donut into a donut. Any atom which creates brand new donuts whenever it is in contact with the wizard, too, must be considered a resource because it donates "donut energy particles" (aka "donuts") into the wizard's domain of existence, and because the presence of each donut energy particle helps the wizard maintain his total number of influences to be 1 higher than it would have been otherwise). An atom which automatically generates donuts without requiring the wizard's involvement does not count as a resource because such a behavior matches the expected behavior of the wizard and therefore qualifies the atom as an extension of the wizard himself.

The "Secure" goal, on the other hand, can be described as one's desire to avoid being in contact with obstacles, where each obstacle is basically an atom that is capable of stealing energy in a way in which it interferes with the process of maximizing the agent's number of influences. For instance, any atom which is able to take magic energy away from the wizard (such as an instance of the "expelliarmus" spell in Harry Potter) must be identified as an obstacle, since less availability of magic energy particles means fewer chances for the wizard to convert a non-donut into a donut. Any atom which destroys donuts, too, must be considered an obstacle because it steals "donut energy particles" (aka "donuts") from the wizard's domain of existence and sends them to imaginary space, therby reducing the wizard's total number of influences.

<005_19>

To summarize, I would say that the narrative characteristic of each active gameplay agent can be specified in terms of:

(1) The types of the agent's influences,
(2) The types of atoms which donate energy in ways in which they help preserve/increase the number of influences (aka "resources"), and
(3) The types of atoms which steal energy in ways in which they hinder the process of preserving/increasing the number of influences (aka "obstacles").

In the case of the wizard who is weirdly obsessed with donuts, we can say that:

(1) Any donut counts as one of the wizard's influences because his ultimate purpose is to increment the number of donuts as much as possible,
(2) Any atom which is capable of donating magic energy to the wizard, or is capable of creating a donut when in contact with the wizard, counts as one of the wizard's resources, and
(3) Any atom which is capable of stealing magic energy from the wizard, or is capable of destroying a donut, counts as one of the wizard's obstacles, and
(4) Any atom which has a tendency of creating donuts on its own is part of the wizard himself (That is, either his own body or his offspring).

<005_20>

The next question is, what would be the underlying mathematical pattern on top of which we are bound to decide exactly what types of atoms qualify as influences, benefactors of influences, and malefactors of influences?

In my view, the key to answering this question solely depends on the problem of figuring out which types of atoms qualify as one's influences. The reason behind this is that, once we know which atoms are supposed to be the observer's influences, we can easily derive the identities of atoms which pertain to the definition of resources and obstacles (i.e. those that either enhance or attenuate the process of keeping/incrementing the total number of influences) based upon the game's mechanical structure. The act of summoning a donut comes with the expenditure of one magic energy particle not because the wizard's profound belief system enforces them to be related in such a way, but because such a relationship is just an inherent law of causality embedded in the physical reality of the gameplay universe. It is the same idea as that a steam engine converts thermal energy to kinetic energy simply due to the fact that these two types of energy are mechanically related in such a way under specific circumstances, not necessarily because there are angels and spirits who believe that their purpose of existence is to turn heat into motion wherever there is a steam engine.

And from our daily observations, we can easily infer that every living thing possesses its own definition of which atoms are its influences and which atoms are not. Such a definition is the heart of one's belief system - a fountain of narratives from which all sorts of motivations sprout and flourish.

Let us imagine that there is a sexually active man who believes that the purpose of his life is to have as many children as possible. Inside his worldview, his own children are his influence atoms and anything which contributes to the creation of his children is a resource (And of course, anything which has the opposite effect is an obstacle). This means that his current wife, potential future wives, prospective recipients of his sperm donation, and Viagra pills are all his resources because all of them provide him with "impregnation-chance energy particles" which, when consumed via exchanges, transfer his children (i.e. influences) from imaginary space to real space, thereby incrementing the total number of his influences.

<005_21>

The exact set of atomic interactions involved during the full process of attraction, intercourse, impregnation, and birth, are not so simple to design as to be demonstrable right away, yet one can easily guess that they can be built out of analogous representations of our physical reality, parts of which have the freedom to be more or less fictional to a fair extent. One may say that representing abstract concepts (e.g. chance of reproduction, fertility, sexual selection, etc) as atoms and their pseudo-chemical interactions over-simplifies things a bit too much, yet we know that this is a kind of generalization we ought to pursue in order to reason with abstract concepts in an efficient manner.

Here is a quick example to back up the statement above. A game character's overall physiological fitness is often being represented as a single health bar, since a game is a work of fiction which has the right to employ any means of unrealistic simplification for the sake of convenience. Likewise, various motivational factors and their ensuing patterns should have everyone's permission to be modeled in a manner which fits our design intentions rather than the so-called "objective reality". We may say that an intercourse is an exchange between one impregnation-chance energy particle and one birth-chance energy particle (Or, in the context of accounting and finance, a transaction which involves a unit loss of impregnation-debt and a unit gain of birth-credit), which is more or less just a fictional model of the full process of procreation but still successfully renders the end result in a satisfying manner. The intermediary processes can be ignored during the game's early prototyping stage, since such details can be filled out later on in a fairly modular fashion.

<005_22>

Here is another example of what determines the identity of one's influence. Let us imagine that there is a highly scholastic man who believes that the only purpose of his life is to make as many scientific discoveries as possible (which qualifies them as his influences). And due to this strong belief which prioritizes his academic career over any other activities, this man is never willing to start a family and have kids.

This is a somewhat trickier scenario because a "scientific discovery" is not nearly as straightforward to define as one's descendant. A child is a biological organism (i.e. an object) which has its own mass and other tangible features, and therefore it makes sense to be represented as an atom (just like a rigid body can be represented as a point mass in physics). A discovery, on the other hand, may refer to either a piece of information or a methodology for accessing a piece of information, which is not really a physically locatable unit of existence and is therefore more or less "distributed" throughout the causal web of space and time.

Again, however, we should remind ourselves that the thing we are trying to design is a game which does not need to portray our physical reality with pinpoint accuracy; it is a fictional universe in which it is okay to represent non-spatial entities as spatial entities and vice versa.

Let us put all sorts of epistemological complexities aside as though they do not exist, and simply assume that any scientific discovery is just a single atom which simultaneously belongs to every place in which it is being conceived. If three people who are respectively named A, B, and C, are the only ones who are aware of a scientific discovery called X, for instance, one could illustrate X as an atom that is bound to A, B, and C. Such a mode of simultaneous bindings indicates a spatial intersection that is being shared by 3 different regions within the space of collective consciousness.

<005_23>

If this scholastic man does not seek fame (public recognition) at all, the number of such bindings which are associated with each scientific discovery won't matter that much to him. The only metric of personal success within the worldview of this dedicated scholar will be the total number of scientific discoveries which were created by himself. This means that, as long as the aforementioned condition holds, any atom which can be identified as a "scientific discovery" automatically qualifies as an influence of this man.

And since a variety of different scientific discoveries can be made only in distinct circumstances which are spatially separate from one another (e.g. a laboratory, a volcanic site, a top of a mountain, a space probe, a telescope, a microscope, an archaeological site, and so on), one could fancy that there are a multitude of imaginary-to-real energy transfer pathways existing within physical sources of scientific discovery. In each one of them, the scholar should be able to conjure a new scientific discovery (i.e. his influence) by means of intellectual motivation, thereby increasing the total number of his influences.

<005_24>

If this man were more of a fame-seeking person than a pure explorer of truth, on the other hand, we would need to interpret things a bit differently. Unlike in the previous case in which the man measured his degree of success in terms of the total number of scientific discoveries that were made by himself, this fame-seeking scholar must be measuring his degree of success in terms of the total number of recognizers whose origins of recognition can be attributed to his own scientific discoveries.

<005_25>

The problem of identifying resources and obstacles depends on what is the primary goal of the scholar. If his focus is to make as many discoveries as possible, one must say that any atom which directly boosts this man's ability to create a new discovery (e.g. a source of intellectual energy, a site of scientific observation, etc) can be defined as a resource and any atom which has the opposite effect can be defined as an obstacle. If the man's focus is to become a famous figure in the field of science, on the other hand, one must say that any atom which directly boosts this man's ability to make people remember his own discoveries (e.g. a person who is willing to learn about his discoveries, a book publisher that is willing to publish a paper on his discoveries, etc) can be defined as a resource and any atom which has the opposite effect can be defined as an obstacle.

<005_26>

This kind of abstract reasoning can go on and on forever, expressing abstract entities in the form of atoms and their transactional relations. Happiness, sadness, anger, fear, jealousy, fondness, empathy, and myriads of other types of emotions, too, can be used to represent somebody's influence atoms which may come into existence under the execution of emotional energy exchanges (aka "emotional transactions").

Since our imaginative freedom does not prevent ourselves from making up abstract playgrounds of meaning upon which every gameplay agent possesses its own definition of resources, influences, and obstacles (as was demonstrated so far by means of multiple examples), and since these 3 classes of atoms directly correspond to the 3 most fundamental goals of every animate object (i.e. Absorb, Expand, and Secure) each of which has its own precise list of mechanical instructions that can easily be translated into computational procedures (See volume 2), it is reasonable for us to conclude that the whole behavioral spectrum of any agent within the game is reducible to a set of mathematical formulas as long as we manage to specify the means of identifying resources, influences, and obstacles of every agent. And we know that, if a conceptual model can be represented mathematically, it will be not so difficult for us to reduce its nature down to the most minimal set of metrics (e.g. distances and energy levels) while also being able to quantitatively expand its scope in an unbounded manner.

Let's go back to the example of the sexually over-active man. A man whose purpose in life is to make as many children as possible will identify his children as his influences, fertilizable women as his resources, and rivals who interfere with his child-making process (such as other men of his age) as his obstacles. The implication of this is that such a man is expected to:

(1) Decrease the average distance of his own body from fertilizable women by approaching them and laying down intermediary energy-transfer bridges between himself and those women as much as possible (This corresponds to the execution of the "Absorb" goal),
(2) Increase the average distance of his own body from his own children by avoiding them as much as possible, since their moms will take care of them anyways and his foremost goal is to increment the total number of children instead of ensuring their overall well-being (This corresponds to the execution of the "Expand" goal), and
(3) Increase the average distance of his own body from other men (sexual competitors) by either avoiding them or kicking them out to other places that are as far away as possible, among which the heaven could have been a strong candidate if the law did not prohibit it (This corresponds to the execution of the "Secure" goal).

<005_27>

In real life, of course, a man is not that extreme in his behaviors. A man, while he may subconsciously possess a strong tendency to seek every chance of reproduction, usually spends some time taking care of his wife (wives) and kids, doing some laundry, washing dishes, working for a job, and so on, unless he is a primeval super-alpha male with a somehow short-circuited brain.

So for a more realistic model of a gameplay agent, we will need to come up with multiple definitions of influences, multiple definitions of resources, and multiple definitions of obstacles depending on a set of values that are originated from not only sexual instincts, but also other volitional factors which are moral, aesthetic, sympathetic, and philanthropic in nature. Such a multitude of beliefs can be translated into a multitude of parallel goals which compete with each other in real time, and the problem of sorting out their relative degrees of prioritization is a separate issue that is yet to be settled down.

However, in the context of game development we do not necessarily have to aim for realism, and therefore are not required to keep multiplying the complexity of one's goal structure beyond our control. After all, an enemy character usually only cares about attacking the player and hardly anything else. In more volitionally complex games (such as The Sims) we can clearly perceive agents with multiple sources of motivation that are in competition with one another (such as Hunger, Bladder, Energy, Hygiene, etc), yet their number is fairly limited and all of them are handled by a set of strictly quantitative laws, which keep them pretty manageable in terms of design and implementation.

(Will be continued in Volume 12)








:d:An article about videogame design and its universal patterns.
:k:Game, Development, Data, Aesthetics, Empirical, Developers, Play

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 12] 2023.04

(Continued from Volume 11)

When it comes to the matter of conceptual essence, the study of game design is not so different from other branches of knowledge in the sense that it involves a vast network of scientific inquiries. A game is a chain of back-and-forth causal interactions between a fictional system and its end user (aka "player"), and is therefore hardly less subject to rigorous academic investigations compared to most other areas of study. It is a multidisciplinary body of research which draws its sources of inspiration from psychology, cognitive science, ethics, aesthetics, and other clusters of theoretical ideas which can altogether be referred to as "philosophy".

It raises a sense of perplexity, therefore, to be witnessing a seemingly counterintuitive sort of phenomenon which has been chronically present in our mainstream game development community. Those who are keen to discern the apparent normal distribution of the population's spectrum of social behaviors should have already realized that anyone whose behavioral sample point is confined within approximately 2 standard deviations of that of the average game developer tends to exhibit a surprisingly fragmented sort of mannerism when it comes to their area of expertise, in the sense that one possesses a strangely brute and uniform tendency to claim that the act of collecting and iterating empirical data alone will suffice to yield pathways to long-term innovations in the game industry.

A piece of empirical data is nothing more than a bunch of numerical gibberish unless we have a way of interpreting it. In order to extract meaning out of it, therefore, it is expected of a true scientific investigator to conceive a set of hypotheses and make sense of the collected data based upon them, instead of simply collecting a bunch of random data first and then expecting to find meaning in it. And since hypotheses originate from theories rather than an endless sequence of buzzwords and motivational slogans such as "Just make a game first! Practice makes it perfect!", it should be noted that the expected behavior of a decent individual who is capable of building something that is somehow distinguishable from a mere reiteration of somebody else's work is to acknowledge the value of establishing a fine balance between both empirical and theoretical faculties of mind, as well as that the way to ensure that they both release their utmost potentials is to utilize them together in a synergetic manner.

<005_28>

A prominent reason why the usage of such a scientific methodology is more crucial than ever nowadays is that we are living in an age where simply making a game that is "fun to play" usually does not suffice to let ourselves have a high chance of considerable monetization in the game industry. There are millions of games around the world which are armed with all sorts of creative strategies to entertain human audiences, and the total number of human gamers are fairly limited. What makes it even worse is that videogames do not decay over time (unlike fruits and vegetables which can be expected to be sold over and over due to repeated consumption), and can be played almost everywhere on Earth by any number of people at any time with almost zero physical limitation. At least back in the 90s and early 2000s, people had to buy separate physical copies (e.g. CDs) in order to be able to play the same game in different places; such a barrier is not even a thing nowadays.

All these factors contribute to the over-saturation of the game industry, on top of the sheer difficulty of monetization due to the abundance of free-to-play games, which often leads to the necessity of bloating the whole gameplay session with incessant tides of advertisement and microtransactions, near-empty random reward packs, and other wallet-opening strategies which, when combined in the most economically optimized way, plunge the whole market into a single point of convergence which is hardly anything more than a glorified slot machine.

<005_29>

The ultimate destiny of plutocracy is mediocracy. Even the highest form of artistic and intellectual endeavors are doomed to negligence and ridicule before the face of the so-called "free market", which prioritizes the most addictive and money-sucking work of clich, that is optimized to appeal to the broadest audience as possible, over the wide spectrum of quirky yet adventurous experiments that were conducted by the game developers of the 80s and 90s back when the videogame industry was not fully mature yet to be able to allow such a point of strategic convergence to be visible. And if you happen to be content with this state of mediocrity in today's gaming culture which financially rewards conformity and punishes individuality, you should probably not be wasting your time reading this article because such a mindset would imply that our value systems hardly align with each other on a fundamental level, and thus render most of our further discussions more or less pointless.

So, what will be a solution to such a state of things? Unless the entire market changes its own inherent characteristics (which is extremely unlikely), the sort of strategic convergence I mentioned above is bound to continue. We simply cannot keep climbing against its natural flow like salmons, while branding ourselves as "hungry artists".

However, we should also note that the reason why such a convergence has been establishing itself so quickly within only a few decades after the initial popularization of videogames is that nearly all commercial games have been exclusively targeting human audiences. From my viewpoint, the underlying assumption that a game must be sold against human customers greatly limits the scope of the gaming market, thereby allowing anyone (or any AI system) who figures out the most optimal strategy of gratifying the average human audience to quickly get promoted into the "ultimate winner" and render further competition mostly meaningless. That is, monopoly is way too easy in the mainstream videogame industry chiefly because it only considers a single type of audience as its source of income - human beings.

If we consider the entire ecosystem of planet Earth as our potential customer base, on the other hand, we will be able to break down the wall of this over-saturated market and start revealing a vast assortment of new opportunities in the business of game development and publication.

<005_30>

And by "ecosystem", what I am referring to is the full spectrum of animals, plants, and even microbial lifeforms which are distributed all over the globe. There is no reason to presuppose that games must be designed only for humans and absolutely no other species, for it is reasonable to say that most behaviors exhibited by the majority of biological species possess their own utilitarian origins (since pointless activities are likely to impose disadvantages upon their courses of survival and reproduction, as far as the context of Darwinian natural selection is concerned), and that the act of play should be deemed as one of such behaviors.

A game is a medium of play, and playing is not necessarily an activity that is exclusive to humans, as is demonstrated by the sheer variety of playful behaviors of cats, dogs, dolphins, and other animal species which do not directly pertain to one's immediate biological benefits in terms of food gathering, security, and other physiological needs. Dogs often wrestle with one another in a mild way, and we usually indicate such a behavioral pattern as a form of play because wrestling itself does not grant them foods, shelters, or any other tangible benefits immediately; rather, such a seemingly wasteful activity may be considered a casual form of "training" or "self-education" - an instinctive method of fulfilling one's belief that frequently being exposed to simulated (fake) challenges will prepare one's mind and body to overcome real dangers by the time they appear. This sort of long-term survival strategy is usually employed by youngsters in the form of games, yet it is also prominent in many parts of our civilization such as military training, workout, rehabilitation, apprenticeship, and many others.

<005_31>

And if we proceed to define the act of play as any activity which can be expected to increase the player's overall chance of survival and reproduction (i.e. degree of competence as a biological being) in future moments in time by means of learning/training which ensue from whichever game it has chosen to play, we can make a fairly educated conjecture that any strategically advanced species in our ecosystem (which may include not only intelligent mammals but also birds, insects, plants, mushrooms, and other branches of living things which express their own cunning methods of survival that are not so instantaneous in their effects) spend significant portions of their time playing their own games.

And if we manage to find out a set of "universal laws" in regard to the nature of play which are being shared across the entire taxonomy of species, we will be able to open up a hidden gateway to the brand new continent of opportunities in game development - for it will let us leverage the whole ecosystem as our target audience.

One may disagree with this notion by saying that it is impossible to monetize one's game if the players are not even human beings, since non-human lifeforms are unable to pay money or benefit businesses by watching their ads. And yes, it will be outrageous to say that a monkey is likely to open up its own bank account, work for a job to earn money, and willingly pay for a videogame that is designed to be played by monkeys. However, such a direct path of monetization is not the only way in which a game can generate revenue.

<005_32>

Let us suppose that there is a videogame designed for cows. If this game manages to make a cow play it (with its tongue and feet) and produce more milk than usual as a result of playing, one will definitely be able to say that the extra quantity of milk produced is the amount of monetary value yielded by the game. There are countless other examples, but I am sure you get the idea. Non-human players will not be able to pay in the form of currencies, but many of them can certainly offer natural resources which are interchangeable with financial assets.

Species that are not animals (e.g. plants and fungi), too, can be managed to play games. They obviously are not capable of playing in the same way as animals do, yet they are nevertheless biological beings which exhibit their own input/output patterns with respect to their surroundings. Thus, it is not so unrealistic for one to fancy that it is definitely feasible to run a game for a vegetable by putting it inside an airtight chamber and letting it interact with the game's internal simulation by exchanging airborne chemicals. Any extra rate of growth displayed by the vegetable will be equated with the amount of profit being generated by the game.

<005_33>

In order to turn this idea of interspecies gaming into a reality, however, we ought not to content ourselves with traditional means of game design which mostly focus on what human players typically experience when they play. Instead, we must break the nature of gameplay down to its most elementary units, from which we can figure out how to construct universally applicable games that are designed to be interactable with a wide variety of species on Earth, not just humans.

This is the reason why I initially began the first volume of this series of articles (volume 1) with the assumption that we should reinvent the methodology of game design based upon the perspective of the most archetypal form of life - that is, a single mathematical point in space whose behavioral spectrum consists of the smallest set of fundamental goals one can ever imagine (i.e. Absorb, Expand, and Secure). The idea is, if we analyze the essence of games based off of the most basic unit of life as their hypothetical player, we will be able to establish a generic design framework which can be applied to the entirety of our ecosystem. This will astronomically expand the horizon of our market niche as game developers.

<005_34>

The "Universal Laws of Game Design" is not about improving in-game economy, enhancing gameplay experiences, or elaborating the game's progression curves (Such technical details have already been thoroughly expounded by numerous academic papers and popular blog posts). It is about fueling a whole new paradigm shift which will revolutionize the entire game industry by completely redefining the meaning of the word "game".

<005_35>

And those who will pioneer this vast new land of opportunities are ones who are willing to listen to opinions which have not been parroted by the mainstream media more than a million times, think forward on a long-term basis, see potentials in the conceptual essence of games rather than an endless chain of buzzwords and cheesy marketing taglines, and not be so quick to dismiss ideas for being "impractical" simply because they do not yield shiny results right off the bat.

The idea presented so far, of course, will require a great deal of additional infrastructure to be built which is separate from that of the existing market. Once built, however, it will create a blue ocean in which there are brand new sources of income originating from not just the demands of entertainment, education, psychotherapy, and training, but also those of our primary industries such as agriculture, fishing, forestry, livestock farming, microbial manufacturing, and many others.

And this prospect can be expected to shine more brightly than ever anytime soon, not only because the idea is relatively new and broadly applicable, but also because our global economy is currently plunging itself into a dark rabbit hole. Ongoing wars and disasters within the world's largest agricultural powerhouses, rise in trade protectionism due to freezing diplomatic relations, as well as the apparent weakening of the status of our reserve currency as the foremost standard of monetary value which leads to the instability of the current US-driven system of global commerce, all contribute to the conviction that life will keep getting harder and harder for years to come.

<005_36>

What this means is that the majority of people will no longer have as much time and money to spend on games as before. Global food shortage is an impending threat to humanity which will manifest itself as soon as the United States abandons her role as the sole protector of free trade, in which case countries that are not fully autonomous in terms of food supply will be in dire situations. And you know what? When there is no food, we simply cannot expect people to have time to spend on playing games; we will have to focus on boosting the efficiency of our primary industries (e.g. agriculture) to the utmost degree by means of various methods of optimization. So if today's game developers want to continue enriching their careers without shifting their area of expertise to something that is drastically different, they better reshape their monetization strategy towards a way in which it directly benefits our primary industries. And the ability to design games which are capable of manipulating the biological output of non-human species is a great starting point of such a journey, as it will imply that such games will have the license to serve as core components of our means of producing foods and other necessities in life.

<005_37>

The importance of industrial autonomy is becoming more and more accentuated nowadays, as is evidenced by the popularity of Blockchain, Hashgraph, DeFi, DApp, Web3, IPFS, and other decentralized means of storing/transferring financial assets. And the heart of such a mode of autonomy lies on the ability to control our material environments (e.g. farms, ocean, forests, mines) through self-sustaining protocols, which deal with subtle psychological interactions of their biological constituents (i.e. organisms) by means of automatic reward/punishment feedback loops. The future of gaming has its own gold mine hidden in this vastly unexplored area, but most developers/publishers do not seem to have realize this yet.

In the next volume, we will see how the universal laws of game design, illustrated so far from volume 1 to volume 10, are going to solidify this vision in an industrially viable way.

(Will be continued in Volume 13)








:d:An article about videogame design and its universal patterns.
:k:Game, Development, Design, Minimalism, Math, Interspecies, Medium

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 13] 2023.04

(Continued from Volume 12)

The possibility of interspecies gaming becomes more and more of a serious business as we consider our upcoming future. As I explained in the previous volume, the necessity of endowing our primary industries (e.g. food and energy production) with the power of autonomy will be more of everyone's interest than ever due to the dwindling degree of reliability in our current mode of global free trade. As the overall degree of mobility in our system of resources decrements, we will be forced to develop some kind of self-sufficiency in our utmost daily needs such as food and petroleum.

And here is a solution. If we design games which can be played by our planet's ecosystem (rather than by human consumers), we will enable ourselves to dig out all sorts of natural resources from our mother nature in an almost fully automatized manner. In a way, thus, we will be entitled to fancy that a "universal game design framework" which is robust enough to serve such purposes must be a sustainable passive-income generator which will extract revenue from the environment by means of dynamically interacting with its ecological participants (i.e. animals, plants, microbes, etc). Every living thing in any biological habitat, such as a forest, a river, a cowshed, or a fish tank, is a potential player which might be able to "pay to win" by utilizing its biological activities in ways which are beneficial to human beings. If a cow plays a game and gets induced to produce extra milk as a result of playing it, for example, we will definitely be able to declare that such a game is a tool for generating revenue in the dairy industry.

<005_38>

In order to be able to design games which are capable of being played by a variety of non-human species, however, we must first come up with "universal laws of game design" which are applicable not only to human players, but also to species whose biological input/output patterns differ greatly from those of humans. And in order to sort them out in forms which can be specified and implemented in practical scenarios without too much hassle, we must establish their logical foundation upon the principle of "mathematical minimalism" and "quantitative expansion" (explained in volume 4). "Mathematical minimalism" allows us to represent abstract concepts without introducing too much complexity, while "quantitative expansion" allows us to keep adding more and more details to our system without introducing additional rules.

While this may be theoretically sound, it is also true that most game developers are likely to be confounded by the notion of building gameplay systems out of such a generic framework which does not specify any "fun" part of the game in particular. Yet, the apparent absence of such a superficial emotion in our conception of the theory makes perfect sense because our shared definition of the word "fun" is more or less confined to the sense of entertainment being felt by human beings, rather than a wide range of interests being shared by a wide spectrum of biological niches which altogether constitute our ecosystem.

Still, it is nevertheless crucial to find a good reason to assure that it is possible to derive a viable set of implementation strategies which are in sync with the aforementioned laws of game design. Once it is proved, we will be able to tell that the idea of constructing universally applicable games out of such laws is not just an assortment of academic imaginations, but more of a body of mutually consistent theories which contribute to the development of a practical business solution.

Let us look back at the overall formulation of the theory which has taken place so far. On the most materialistically fundamental level, we have atoms and their bindings which conceptually represent regions in space and their input/output relations respectively. Each region may denote a spatial location, a unit of energy, an energy potential, an object, a component of an object, or any other entity which is discrete in nature.

<005_39>

When we think about the nature of a gameplay world, we often conceptualize it in terms of "things" which occupy portions of its spatial volume. Such "things" can be interpreted as atoms, since the idea of modelling a universe as a collective sum of its smallest indivisible units (aka "atoms") helps us design its nature in a strictly quantitative (therefore logically traceable) way.

<005_40>

Representing a universe solely based upon its material composition, however, is inadequate for game design purposes because it only shows half of the full picture. A game consists of both mechanics and narratives, which continually augment and rectify each other in a cyclic manner. While material bodies and their respective physical motions do have the capacity to describe the game's mechanics, they do not fully explain (at least in the practical sense) the dynamics of living things and their emotional behaviors. Therefore, aside from a collection of atoms which represent the physical entities of the world, we need yet another collection of atoms which represent the narratives of those entities. What is perhaps the most intuitive form of such a collection is a tree of goals, in which each component node is an atom denoting a goal to pursue.

<005_41>

From a holistic viewpoint, what we implicitly observe is a pair of trees which can respectively be labelled as "Tree of Existence" and "Tree of Purpose". The former is the universe's overall hierarchy of mechanical beings, whereas the latter is the collective hierarchy of their goals. The Tree of Existence continually modifies the structure of the Tree of Purpose, while the Tree of Purpose continually modifies the structure of the Tree of Existence (by adding and subtracting "motive molecules", as demonstrated in volume 10). This gives birth to a cycle of mutual reinforcement between the game's mechanics and their respective narratives. Anyone who has control over both of these two trees must have full control over the universe.

One might question this way of modelling by saying, "So, why represent the whole game as a pair of trees which are made up of individual atoms and their hierarchical associations? Wouldn't it be a much better idea to simply represent the game world as one continuous Euclidean space, in which all sorts of geometric shapes can reside and play their own roles as gameplay agents such as the player, NPCs, props, obstacles, traps, and so forth? Why bother introducing obscure topological concepts to the scene, if we can leverage the knowledge of our natural geometry as means of triggering a variety of in-game events?"

This question makes perfect sense to a certain extent, except that such a Euclidean model begins to reveal its own severe limitations as soon as we go deeper into the subject of gameplay dynamics and their ensuing suggestion of complexity.

When we represent our in-game objects as geometric figures instead of a topological network of nodes, what we are immediately bound to realize is the necessity to design our game mechanics based upon fairly complicated geometric calculations such as those which pertain to global/local coordinate systems, vector math, spatial hashing, collision detection, raycast, and many other mathematical constructs which are not clearly understood by most game development professionals whose areas of expertise are outside of the domain of engineering. Unless it is one's intention to exclude anyone who is not well-versed in mathematics from being part of the game design process, it is necessary to start the conceptual foundation of the gameplay universe from a model that is much more approachable from a layman's perspective (That is, discrete atoms and their bindings).

Aside from the ease of comprehension, there are two other reasons why our discrete model is superior to geometric representations. One is that it is much more convenient to express complex objects as an assembly of discrete functional components than to express it as a continuous volume in space (for it is not so difficult to imagine that space itself does not intrinsically possess rooms for functional endowment), and the other one is that it is way easier to implement discrete components and their relations in our digital computers than things which are spatially continuous (aka "analog") in nature.

In order to demonstrate the ease of implementation, let us first suppose that we are planning to develop a computer game based upon the "universal laws of game design" introduced so far, using a conventional programming language such as C/C++ along with a conventional development framework such as OpenGL. There are other equally viable means of implementation, but being able to create a game inside our modern general-computing framework seems to be a decent starting ground for the purpose of proving that these "universal laws" really are universal in the sense that they can be applied to games which are playable in most commercial electronic devices (such as PCs, tablets, phones, game consoles, etc).

(1) Computer-Based Implementation

If the basis of our game design began with the conception of Euclidean space, prototyping a game would have been a massive pain due to the fact that it would require us to equip the project with math, graphics, and physics libraries just to demonstrate the core dynamics of the design. Fortunately, we do not have to deal with such technical details when we represent every in-game component as a discrete entity called "atom", since it can simply be implemented as a chunk of data (i.e. struct), stored as an element of an array. Its bindings are nothing more than pointers which point to other atoms in the array.

<005_42>

Components of a physical object, positions in space, signals, signal receptors, energy particles, potentials, and myriads of other indivisible spatial entities can all be described as "atoms" from a purely computational standpoint, and thus they can all be represented as instances of the atom-struct inside this single array.

In order to distinguish atoms which "exist" from those which "do not exist", all we have to do is mark the first two elements of the array as "real space" and "imaginary space", respectively, and then make all "existing atoms" point to the real space and all "non-existing atoms" point to the imaginary space. This way, the programmer won't even have to create separate arrays or come up with a clever memory allocation scheme to be able to endow them with separate existential characteristics. Pointer values (i.e. bindings) will automatically render such distinctions.

<005_43>

Goals, too, can be represented as atoms because they are discrete entities with topological bindings. This means that they are not even the slightest bit different from spatial (physical) atoms in the sense that they are elements in the array of atom-structs. Relationships between gameplay agents and their respective goals can simply be indicated by their mutual bindings (i.e. pointers).

<005_44>

Creation and fulfillment of goals, as well as their subsequent modification of the physical arrangement of things in the material universe, can be implemented as functions which get executed as the program traverses the goal tree. In a way, therefore, the entire goal tree may as well be imagined as the hierarchy of all function calls within the game.

<005_45>

One may object to the notion of designing the whole game based upon atoms and their interconnections, perhaps by saying that our in-game objects are complex beings which possess a wide range of graphically and physically rich components rather than mathematical points in space, such as meshes, materials, hitboxes, joints, bones, animations, and so on. However, we ought to behold that the atom-based model is meant to be the underlying functional skeleton of the game rather than the result of its full implementation. The final product, for sure, cannot be constructed solely out of atoms and their relations. Yet, the idea is that once we have a rigid gameplay framework which can be expressed in terms of these abstract elements (the main benefit of such a framework being that its dynamic nature can be easily understood by all types of game development professionals such as designers, artists, musicians, engineers, QAs, and producers), we can simply proceed to finish the rest of the project by adding separable layers of complexity on top of them.

For example, as long as we suppose that a compound object is a graph made up of atoms and their bindings, it is not difficult to fancy that each of its constituent atoms is an individual body part of a creature, equipped with its own transform, mesh, material, hitbox, physical joint (such as a hinge), and other typical gameplay-related components. These all exist in addition to the underlying atomic representation of the object, which means that all the complexities which arise from the problem of handling various assets and other implementation details can easily be separated out from the core structure of the gameplay. This is the art of modularity.

<005_46>

(2) Custom Hardware Implementation

For utmost optimization, one may even proceed to develop games by coming up with one's own custom hardware instead of relying on the computational framework of a general-purpose computing device such as a PC. In such a scenario, too, our atom-based gameplay system turns out to be highly compatible both in terms of design and implementation.

Let us imagine that every one of the atoms in our gameplay universe is a circuit component whose bindings are represented as wires. Since atoms change their bindings as the game progresses, such wires will have to be able to rearrange their endpoints every time the game's electronic clock ticks itself. This means that, on the semiconductor level, it is possible to implement the whole gameplay system by manufacturing an integrated circuit which consists of two layers - the lower one being the two-dimensional array of atoms, and the upper one being the two-dimensional array of wires and their signal routers. By reconfiguring the way in which the routers join their wires with each other, one can reconfigure the way in which the atoms are bound to one another. Creation and execution of goals will be nothing more than mere atom-to-atom interactions which happen via modifications in their respective wire connections, all taking place in parallel and thus allowing the game to run blazingly fast.

<005_47>

(3) Chemical Implementation

Our atom-based model is even more compatible with a chemical computing system, although such a system has not reached a sufficiently high level of popularity yet. Due to the obvious analogy between our hypothetical "atoms" as the individual building blocks of our game design and the real atoms of our actual physical surroundings, it is not hard to imagine that one has the right to claim the feasibility of building a chemical computer which leverages the science of real molecular interactions as means of simulating the atom-based gameplay model.

As long as we assume that the game world consists of a fabric of space which is permitted to warp its own shape at any time, it will be quite possible to say that every gas molecule which fills up the chemical computer's airtight chamber is a set of "spatial atoms" which represent positions in space (If one wants a strictly 2D Euclidean gameplay space of a fixed shape and size instead, there will need to be a well-polished crystal plane, in which case each atom constituting the surface of its crystalline structure will be interpreted as a spatial atom).

<005_48>

In this chemistry-driven simulation space, each in-game agent is nothing more than a molecular compound which dynamically interacts with other molecular compounds, under the influence of "motive molecules" which are injected into the chamber for the purpose of catalysis. That is, injection of motive molecules can be interpreted as a process of putting some kind of "holistic motives" (i.e. cosmic purpose) to the game's overall landscape of narratives, whereas the subsequent injection of another set of molecules which dissolve those motive molecules (thereby disabling their roles as motivational catalysts) can be interpreted as a process of demotivation which cancels out the state of volitional arousal. The so-called "motive molecules" are basically the hormones of our chemical environment, responsible for handling the overall mood of the deity which rules over its internal universe.

As we can tell from the examples illustrated so far, it is not so hard to expand the universal laws of game design into forms that are physically implementable. The last remaining question is whether this revelation will lead to commercially viable solutions by letting our end products interact with the ecosystem in profitable ways.

And my answer is, "Yes, definitely". Since it is now proven that the generic interspecies gaming model can be implemented within pretty much any computing device (e.g. PC, phone, console, etc) as well as other physical analogues, the rest of the technical problem only lies on that of introducing an appropriate user interface for whichever target audience we are aiming at. If the player is a cow in a cowshed, for instance, we will need to mount a screen for the cow to look at, a pressure sensor which will fire a signal when licked by the cow, and a dispenser which will "reward" the cow by releasing a piece of bite-sized fodder whenever the cow conducts a peculiar licking activity which biologically induces it to produce more milk than usual.

While this specific cow example may not be economically viable in reality, we should also remind ourselves that there are countless other potentially lucrative scenarios we can venture to imagine in various industries as well as the nature itself. After all, we are all already aware an age-old human activity which can be described as an "interspecies game"; it is called "fishing". A person throws a bait into the surface of a lake with the help of a fishing rod, which effectively converts the whole habitat into a multiplayer gaming arena (aka "MOBA") in which each fish is a player who participates in the game by actively competing with other fish to spot the bait first and eat it, for the purpose of rewarding itself with the extra energy (calories) it is expected to obtain by the act of grabbing the bait. In this case, the bait is the "resource" of each fish player, and any other fish is its "obstacle". One could say that the fisher basically turned the whole lake into a gaming area by artificially assigning the two opposing properties ("resource" and "obstacle") to the lake's atomic constituents.

(Will be continued in Volume 14)









:d:An article about videogame design and its universal patterns.
:k:Animal-Game, Game, AI, Entertainment, Non-Human, Gameplay, Minigame

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 14] 2023.05

(Continued from Volume 13)

Throughout the previous two volumes, I explained the viability of the universal laws of game design as a backbone of future applications in the field of interspecies gaming. The idea that was first expounded was the weakening of the so-called "entertainment industry" as a profitable niche, which led to the notion that development efforts of our upcoming generations will eventually be more focused on multidisciplinary applications of games such as those which directly generate revenue from our primary industries such as farming, mining, fishery, forestry, and manufacturing.

This source of inspiration originates from the belief that, as the gaming market has been becoming more and more of a red ocean (compounded by the fact that contemporary game developers are competing with not only other developers but also AI and other means of automation), a game which is solely designed for human entertainment is hardly going to survive as a reliable means of income generation. This has been evidenced by the disproportionately huge focus on the concept of P2E (Play to Earn) happening in our Web3 gaming community, which suggests that one can no longer sufficiently convince the audience of the value of a game without giving them an obvious financial incentive to play it.

It is not nonsensical to conclude, therefore, that we are entering a new era of gaming in which the very definition of the term "game" must broaden itself out towards areas which had previously been deemed completely irrelevant to the notion of gaming. One may say that this has already been happening in many non-mainstream gameplay applications such as therapeutic games, educational games, training simulations, and so forth, yet such use cases are more or less solely focused on human experiences and thus are quite limited in their scope compared to the full spectrum of possibilities we may potentially uncover.

What the universal laws of game design are aiming at is a solid set of philosophies which will help us lay down the theoretical foundation for games that can be played not only by human beings, but also by livestock, agricultural crops, fish, wild animals, and even microscopic organisms. And the reasoning behind this kind of endeavor is that, once we figure out how to make a game that is universally playable by our planet's entire ecosystem, we will be able to turn our whole globe (aka "Gaia") into a gamer who has the potential to "pay" us by means of changing its own environmental configuration which can be considered beneficial to mankind (See volume 12 for more details).

<005_49>

Someone might say, "Animals are too stupid to play games that are made by humans. And we cannot even make them playtest and give us constructive feedback. You are speaking pure nonsense here!" To such a point of argument, I would first respond by saying that the average human player is not that intelligent either, and also that the series of reasons I am about to display below all speak in favor of what I have been suggesting so far.

(1) First of all, animals do not necessarily have to be "smart" in the sense of general intelligence in order to be able to play games. Abstract forms of reasoning which are deemed exclusive to mankind, such as symbol-based languages, mathematics, and so forth, are hardly needed in the act of play unless we are aiming to design a complex management simulator or a strategy game which requires a great deal of background knowledge and insight. After all, today's gaming industry, due to its extremely high degree of internal competition, has already been veering towards the direction of massive "dumbing down" of the whole entertainment sphere by oversimplifying games all the way down to the most instantly gratifying level of gluttony one can ever conceive of (e.g. hypercasual games). Such an ongoing shift in the mainstream game design strategy already pretty much aligns with the phenomenon we can expect from our near future - that is, games that are so incredibly patronizing in terms of the level of intellect they require from the user, that they can even be played by an amoeba.

(2) Conducting playtest with animals is far easier than with human beings. We do not need to compensate animals for playtesting, nor do we ever have to ask animals to reserve their own time slots to test the game. Also, animals do not have to be our friends, acquaintences, or fans in order to let us convince them that it is worthwhile to spend their time playing the game without incentives that are sufficiently great in magnitude. All we have to do is simply put the game console in front of animals in the cage (if they are either livestock or lab animals) or just put it in the middle of a natural habitat such as a forest, a meadow, or an ocean. As long as the game console is designed to automatically interact with any nearby animals of our interest (whether they be wild cats, insects, birds, wolves, fish, etc), the only work we will have to do is place a functioning copy of that console in an appropriate place and wait for playtesters to naturally come over out of curiosity. Receiving feedback from animal playtesters, too, is a piece of cake. Unlike human beings whose range of responses are quite complex and are subject to great individual variances (e.g. Hardcore Gamers VS Casual Gamers, In-App Purchasers VS Ad-Watchers, etc), animals and their monetary outputs are pretty straightforward to measure and analyze. Want to design a game which increases revenue in the dairy industry? Just measure the average quantity of milk generated by a group of cows which played the game, and compare it with the average quantity of milk generated by a group of cows which did not play the game. The resulting difference should indicate the amount of "success" of the game in terms of extra milk production, and any change in the game's design which increments this particular metric should be considered a right decision to make.

(3) Animal gamers are much easier to deal with than human gamers, which is an obvious advantage when it comes to the amount of work that is involved in tricky interpersonal businesses such as "customer service", "community maintenance", and all that jazz. Animals do not demand release dates, early access privilege, demo footage, Discord server moderation, marketing hype, buzzwords, and many others which pertain to the social psychology of the mass rather than the game's intrinsic quality as a medium of interaction. Animals do not even leave a single negative comment on Steam, nor do they complain whenever they feel like they are required to pay something which is worth more than a quarter dollar in order to obtain a special sword that is powerful enough to wipe out the whole dungeon as soon as it touches one of its hitboxes. Animals simply interact with what is available right in front of them if they are interested, or simply leave if they are not interested. There is no need to cuddle them like babies who need constant emotional care, and this is definitely a huge budget-saver when we consider the amount of workforce which would've been forced to be expended otherwise.

(4) Animals are much more straightforward in their reward-driven behaviors than humans. A typical human gamer would often expect a well-formulated lore, immersive UI/UX, hyper-realistic graphics and sound, non-exploitative in-game economy, meta-game features such as events, leaderboards, eSports (e.g. spectator mode), and many other complex systems which, when combined as a whole, are prone to convolute the whole product into an ugly mess of engineering nightmare. Animals, on the other hand, are extremely simple in their demands and their behaviors are way more predictable. All we have to do is give them food or anything else that they are naturally fond of (such as catnip for cats) whenever they do what we want them to do. Any conscious biological being that is keen to perceive the obvious advantage of being engaged in an act of exchange qualifies as one of our customers, and I am sure that our planet's ecosystem is primarily filled with such economically minded beings because most of them would have gone extinct if strategic decision-making weren't part of their appetite. For our own benefit, therefore, we just have to give them things which are more valuable to them than to us (such as grass for cows, since we cannot eat grass but cows can), in exchange for them giving us things which are more valuable to us than to them (such as a piece of coal, ore, or gem, since animals do not use them).

<005_50>

(5) Marketing will be close to being unnecessary if we do not consider human beings as our main target audience. Humans are way too much occupied with social media, work, hobbies, conversations, and many other daily distractions, which compels us to utilize various marketing strategies such as advertisement, teasers, and community-building just for the slightest hope of grabbing people's attention. Animals, on the other hand, have a much more confined list of interests (e.g. seeking foods, finding mates, protecting one's offspring) which means that we can easily grab their attention as long as we manage to present them with a medium which pertains to one of such instinctual focal points. A machine which emits a smell of food, for instance, will attract wild animals even from a long distance as long as it is placed amidst a forest, without having to explain to them why this particular smell of food is something worth spending their time on. This will continue to be the case unless the entire forest gets flooded with too many of such machines, in which case the target animals are likely to be spread out in multiple places and thus reduce the overall density of engagement in each machine.

<005_51>

Due to reasons like these, it is quite a surprise for me to realize that most game developers and publishers have been focusing solely on human entertainment which represents only a tiny fraction of what games can offer from a business point of view.

Another question which may arise at this point is, "Okay, I get your flow of logic here. But why on earth would you have any reason to claim that the so-called "universal laws of game design" are antecedent to the idea of interspecies gaming? If interacting with animals is much simpler than interacting with humans, why would we even need such a seemingly complicated set of theories to be able to construct games that are expected to be played by animals?"

To be honest, a theoretical framework is probably not necessary for a mere proof of concept. We may as well just build a vending machine which dispenses a fish whenever a dolphin donates a piece of plastic, for instance, and place it somewhere inside the ocean to let it function as an ocean cleaner. And for sure, such an application does not require any "theory" other than ones that are needed for figuring out how to manufacture such a machine and where to place it. So when it comes to immediate applicability, case-by-case analysis may suffice (e.g. "What does this animal want, and what can we gain from it when we give it what it wants?", etc).

We should also note, however, that the domain of interactions we are dealing with in interspecies gaming is the whole ecosystem (rather than completely isolated environments) where countless living things and natural resources are causally related to one another. When we place a game console in the middle of a forest which gives food to foxes whenever they play a game, for example, it can be expected to warp the forest's ecological dynamics in ways which may either benefit or harm us due to its side effects such as: (1) Increment in the number of potential preys of the foxes due to the introduction of an alternative source of nutrients, (2) Increment in the total number of foxes because of the increased chances of mating due to the fact that they now tend to gather in the same place (i.e. near the game console), (3) Higher chances for predators to hunt down foxes because they may be vulnerable against external attacks while playing games, and so on.

<005_52>

The long-term consequence of such side effects is something which requires a great deal of scientific research to predict, and is not something we can foresee just by looking at individual cases and their immediate outcomes. When we are developing games which are designed to entertain human beings, we can assure that such games will not directly influence our environment as a whole because it will only involve changes in the moods of human players and their personal expenditure of their own personal time. When we are developing games which are designed to involve direct exchanges of tangible resources with wild animals, on the other hand, we must be aware of their direct influences over the environment because such factors may severely disturb the overall balance of the food chain and hurt our passage of income in the long run.

And in order to analyze the ecological implications of a game in a scientific manner, we must reestablish the whole game design framework based upon a purely mathematical model which does not attach itself to vague emotional terminologies such as "fun", "engaging", and "creative". It is because what we are dealing with here is a set of strictly quantitative relations among things which pertain to our economic interests.

The underlying theory of the new kind of game design I have introduced so far is meant to be both mathematically minimal and quantitatively expandable - "minimal" because the design must be understood by anyone who has received a decent level of education, and "expandable" because the design's scope must be able to encompass the entirety of our ecosystem rather than specific use cases alone. And for the purpose of justifying this train of logic, I will start with an example that is fairly easy to understand.

Let us imagine that we are in the middle of a jungle, which is populated by a sufficiently high number of monkeys. We have a machine mounted on a fairly visible part of the ground, not obscured too much by rocks and trees (which makes it an ideal spot for attracting animal customers). If we are to let this machine execute a game that is playable by any monkey in this habitat, what shall we do?

The very first step I can think of is to just use our common sense. For example, we know that monkeys eat bananas, right? This means that the machine should probably be able to have a bunch of bananas ready and hand them over to monkeys whenever they "win" the game. This is a rudimentary reward mechanism which is so simple and straightforward, that even an average human player can understand it (which means monkeys should have no trouble understanding it as well).

The next step is to determine the condition of winning, as well as to make sure that monkeys understand it. This is a tricky part of the design because we want to require monkeys to exhibit a behavior which is beneficial to us before they win the game. Obviously, it is necessary for us to first identify types of monkey-activities which provide us with resources that are valuable to us, and then find out a way to make monkeys realize that they ought to perform those activities in order to receive the treats they desire.

The aforementioned criteria should be satisfied if we interface things in the right way. For sure, a completely opaque and airtight box with a bucketful of bananas in it won't encourage monkeys to partake in any banana-seeking attempts, since they won't even realize that there are bananas in the first place. The machine should be designed to let monkeys notice the presence of bananas (probably by means of a transparent and scent-emitting chamber), as well as to let them learn the method of obtaining those bananas. This "learning" part of the interface is indeed quite difficult to formulate because, just like human players, monkeys do not read instruction manuals. Thus we cannot teach them the full course of the game's reward mechanism right at the very beginning of their gameplay experience (If we try to do so, they will simply get frustrated and "rage quit" just as a typical human player would do).

A solution to the problem stated above is to break down the whole game into a series of individual missions, each of which is so simple and intuitive that monkeys already know how to play it. For instance, let us suppose that we want monkeys to deposit pieces of wood into the machine in exchange for receiving bananas as a reward (because we would like to use those pieces of wood as a fuel). Since we do not know how to directly explain this win-condition to monkeys, we must solve this communication problem by splitting it into smaller ones which parallel the sequence of archetypal monkey-behaviors.

When a monkey sees a cage of bananas, it may try to reach one of them by stretching its arm as much as possible. When this primary method fails, it may try to open it up by the act of beating, shaking, pushing, and pulling. When this secondary method fails, it may try to search for a hidden passage through which it may enter the cage, and so on and so forth. Here, we can recognize that the monkey's decision-making process consists of a cascade of problem-solving strategies which are functionally separable from one another.

<005_53>

What this means is that these individual strategies can be mapped into their own corresponding reward-and-punishment feedback loops, which will effectively turn them into mini-games (aka "quests") that can be played by the monkey without requiring it to learn anything new (because such a series of mini-games, when carefully crafted, will align with the monkey's default line of behaviors).

<005_54>

Such decomposition will then help the designer construct each phase of the game in a highly modular manner, thereby reducing the complexity of the design process by orders of magnitude. Once decomposed, each part will then be able to be represented as a discrete mathematical (i.e. atom-based) model which had been described so far. In the next volume, I will explain the benefits of this approach.

(Will be continued in Volume 15)









:d:An article about videogame design and its universal patterns.
:k:Mini-Game, Pathfinding, Behavioral, Science, Game-Science, Game-Psychology, Evolution

[Universal Laws of Game Design - Volume 15] 2023.05

(Continued from Volume 14)

In the previous volume, I introduced the idea of decomposing the whole game into a cascade of multiple subroutines called "mini-games" for the sake of simplifying the design process. As I hinted during the first half of volume 1, a game can be represented as a sequence of sub-goals which ultimately contribute to the fulfillment of the player's ultimate goals as a biological entity: "Absorb", "Expand", and "Secure". Since the full chain of such sub-goals is way too convoluted to be depicted as a single mathematical construct, it should be deemed wise to break it down into mini-games each of which is designed to direct the player's attention to only one of such sub-goals instead of all of them at once.

And since the behavioral nature of any organism (at least within a particular theoretical context which I have been assuming so far) can be modeled in terms of the changes in its distances (i.e. pathfinding costs) from 3 distinct types of atoms which are denoted by "Resources", "Influences", and "Obstacles", it should be also wise to suppose that each mini-game guides the player's behavior based upon the presence of its own temporarily defined set of resources, influences, and obstacles.

Let us go back to the monkey example which was introduced in the previous volume. Here, each mini-game can be considered a separate universe - a universe which possesses its own set of resources and obstacles for the monkey to interact with. In the first mini-game, the outside of the cage is the monkey's obstacle because approaching the center of the cage (i.e. the place where the banana is located) is basically the same thing as running away from any location which exists outside of the cage. Meanwhile, the banana is the monkey's resource within this mini-game because the monkey is expected to simply stretch its arm towards the banana during its very first attempt to acquire it. In the second mini-game, the cage's mesh is the monkey's obstacle and its inside is the monkey's resource because such a configuration propels the monkey to try to open up the cage by trying to destroy the cage's mesh (in order to move it to the heaven (i.e. imaginary space)) while also trying to sneak into the cage as soon as part of it gets destroyed. In the third mini-game, the cage's mesh is still the monkey's obstacle but now a hidden passage which leads to the inside of the cage (if it exists) is identified as the resource instead.

<005_55>

These three mini-games all happen in the same place (i.e. game console), though. Therefore, it is sensible for us to think about the overall time-invariant representation of the gameplay space with which the monkey is engaged, which is basically the union of all spatial entities and their network of mutual bindings found in all of the aforementioned mini-games. Inside such a holistic view, everything is an atom; the monkey is an atom, the outside of the cage is an atom, the inside of the cage is an atom, and so on.

<005_56>

The three mini-games are nothing more than different interpretations of the same overall picture, which may be referred to as separate parallel universes whose characteristics differ based upon the observer's motivational state. In the first mini-game, the monkey tries to directly reach the banana which is located somewhere that is not part of the outside of the cage. Thus in this particular scenario, the monkey defines the outside of the cage as an obstacle (which is must avoid) and the banana as a resource (which it must follow). The rest of the two mini-games follow the same kind of logic.

<005_57>

Once the three distinct parallel universes are superimposed into a single unified picture, we see the full landscape of the game's narrative in the form of multi-stage resources/obstacles, where each stage is denoted by an index such as 1, 2, or 3 (referring to the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd mini-games, respectively).

<005_58>

And if we expand this model into distinct time intervals each of which represents the duration during which the monkey gets engaged in each mini-game, we will obtain the landscape of the monkey's gameplay in the form of a space-time continuum. In this model, the agent which plays the first mini-game is the copy of the monkey-atom which belongs to time 1, the agent which plays the second mini-game is the copy of the monkey-atom which belongs to time 2, and the agent which plays the third mini-game is the copy of the monkey-atom which belongs to time 3.

<005_59>

The ultimate purpose of the game, of course, is not just to entertain the monkey by letting it find its way to the banana without necessarily benefiting the owner of the game console. The machine will eventually have to encourage the monkey to insert a piece of wood into its deposit box (This is a monkey version of "Pay to Win"), and such a peculiar kind of motivation should not be expected from any of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd mini-games which were illustrated above.

The solution to this problem is straightforward; we just have to add additional mini-games to the monkey's expected course of gameplay. Let us assume that there is the 4th mini-game which is designed to inform the monkey that inserting a piece of wood into the machine will help it obtain the banana. How will this 4th mini-game have to be designed to serve such a purpose?

First of all, we do not know the language of monkeys in a sufficiently accurate manner and therefore cannot afford to come up with an NPC who will appear before the monkey and say the sentence: "Bring a piece of wood and I will give you a banana!" in monkey-speak. So we must communicate with the monkey based upon a universal language called "demonstration". All we have to do is periodically display a live demo of the feedback loop between a wooden piece and a banana in front of the monkey, either by means of a video footage on a screen or by means of a mechanical automaton which involves a robotic monkey and a fake banana. The demo can simply show a virtual monkey dropping a piece of wood into the machine and getting a banana as a reward, dropping another piece and getting another banana, dropping yet another piece and getting yet another banana, and so on (in a cyclic manner, repeating the same sequence of events indefinitely). This will make the monkey realize that, since it has become quite apparent (after playing the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd mini-games) that there is no way to directly reach the banana, or to open up the cage, or to find a hidden passage, the only remaining solution is to watch the live demo and mimic what is happening inside of it.

<005_60>

Once the monkey copies the behavior shown by the demonstration footage, fetches a nearby piece of wood, and puts it into the game console's deposit box, it will immediately verify that the scenario showcased by the demo is indeed an accurate reflection of reality by seeing an actual banana dropping in front of it as a reward. After this initial confirmation, we can pretty much assure that the monkey will bring more and more pieces of wood and drop them into the box for the purpose of earning more and more bananas. As long as the amount of effort it takes to find a new piece of wood and bring it back to the machine is smaller than the amount of effort it takes to find a natural source of food (e.g. a naturally grown banana on a banana tree), the monkey will be engaged in this artificial feedback loop whenever it gets hungry.

On a schematic level, this whole feedback loop can be broken down into two mini-games - namely, the 4th and the 5th. The 4th mini-game begins as soon as the monkey watches the demo and learns about the quest it is required to carry out in order to receive the reward it desires (i.e. banana). In this mini-game, the monkey interprets any piece of wood as a resource because it is what it needs to collect in order to unlock the "reward" side of the feedback loop. The inside of the cage, on the other hand, is interpreted as the monkey's obstacle because visiting locations that are part of the cage itself won't help the monkey discover a piece of wood.

Once the monkey successfully gets ahold of a piece of wood, the 5th mini-game begins. In this mini-game, the inside of the cage is interpreted as a resource because the monkey is supposed to bring the piece of wood back to the cage in order to complete the mission, and the outside of the cage is interpreted as an obstacle because one's desire to approach the cage is the same thing as one's desire to run away from any location which belongs to the outside of the cage.

<005_61>

The thing is, the monkey won't just stop right after it receives its first reward. It will continue playing the game by repeating the 4th mini-game and 5th mini-game multiple times (i.e. finding and retrieving more and more pieces of wood) in order to receive the same reward over and over again, until its stomach becomes full. Unless it somehow forgets its initial experience with the machine, however, it will never repeat the first three mini-games because those have already been proven to be ineffective. So the first three can be considered the monkey's FTUE (First Time User Experience), as opposed to its main gameplay loop which consists of the 4th and 5th mini-games.

<005_62>

But of course, this constantly rewarding gameplay won't last that long because each monkey can manage to eat only a fairly small number of bananas at a time. One may consider reducing the size of each reward down to only a small portion of a banana in order to alleviate this problem, yet such a kind of reduction risks potential loss of interest due to its decreased level of cost-effectiveness; that is, the monkey may simply think, "Why bother searching for a piece of wood in the first place, if all I am promised to get is just a tiny subsection of a banana? I will rather just directly search for a banana tree instead, where I can expect to find whole bananas and even bundles of them!"

A better solution to this is to turn the game console into a slot machine. Instead of handing over the exact same piece of reward to the monkey every time it accomplishes a mission, this machine would sometimes hand over a relatively large treat, sometimes a relatively small treat, or sometimes nothing at all (depending on the result of a dice roll). This gambling mechanic will motivate the monkey to be way more intensely engaged in its wood-fetching activity than it would've been if its earnings were highly predictable in nature, for such a configuration introduces an uplifting sense of fascination which springs from one's expectation of a "surprise reward" - a jovial sort of hope which makes the monkey dream of winning a huge fortune during its next trial, thereby driving it to play the game over and over gain just for the sheer anticipation that its own fantasy will make an unprecedented visit and knock the door of reality at some point in time.

And we can proceed to add more and more design elements to the game as needed, which will enrich the monkey's gameplay experience further and further until we are assured that the game console is sufficiently effective in terms of generating revenue out of monkeys in the forest. We may consider employing intransitive mechanics, rubberbanding, exponential/logarithmic progression curves, and myriads of other strategies for maximizing the profit. However, full exposition of such technical details is not what these articles are intended for.

To recap, I would say that the initial motivation behind the search for "universal laws of game design" was the desire to introduce a purely mathematical model in which all sorts of seemingly vague gameplay concepts become endowed with the privilege of merging themselves into a set of strictly quantitative definitions, rather than an endless continuum of case-by-case examples and generic marketing phrases.

And throughout all volumes of this series of articles, it has always been of the foremost priority to ensure that such a pure structure of reasoning be invariably preceded by our common understanding of the physical reality which surrounds us, which comprises space, matter energy, information, and other shared conceptual elements which, when combined, constitute the dynamics of our universe.

A fictional gameplay universe is made up of atoms, each of which may represent a spatial location, an energy particle (which could belong to not just one of physical kinds, but also one of psychological kinds such as emotions), a part of a mechanical body, a volitional element, or any other physical/metaphysical entity which can be considered indivisible. From an arrangement of atoms and their relations, various mechanics and narratives emerge both of which reinforce one another in a cyclic manner (Mechanics give birth to new narratives, and narratives give birth to new mechanics). And since it is possible to mathematically define atoms and their relations, it must also be possible (under the principle of additivity) to mathematically define their ensuing mechanics, narratives, and their suggestion of gameplay as a whole.

It is likely to be argued, though, that the theoretical model which has been devised so far is way too structurally abstract to be comprehended and/or utilized by most people, except ones who are quite familiar with discrete mathematics. And this is a perfectly valid argument, especially when we notice that one of the primary goals of the universal laws of game design is to make sure that they are "universal" in the sense that anyone who possesses a decent level of academic literacy must be able to grasp their nature regardless of one's own area of expertise.

However, it should also be noted that the symbols and numerous other notations I have used so far to explain these universal laws are not an absolute set of grammatical rules which we all most follow with utmost precision. After all, it is the underlying body of concepts that is of our interest, rather the specific syntax we choose to express them. In a practical scenario in which we are to design a game, we probably do not want to draw out every energy particle, every signal particle which may be transmitted from one place to another, every potential which may or may not let an energy particle come in or move out, every minuscule body part of an organism, or every single point in space as an atom and its collection of bindings. So for efficiency and ease of understanding, we may consider introducing notational conventions (i.e. syntactic sugar) to the way in which we represent our model.

If we assume that our gameplay space comprises a two-dimensional grid of voxels, for example, it is more intuitively satisfying for us to denote each voxel (i.e. spatial location) by a square area instead of an atom. Also, it is more intuitively satisfying for us to denote each energy potential by a small numerical label attached to the corner of its containing voxel, which tells the location's energy-type and energy-level.

<005_63>

Also, while it has conceptually been supposed that a connected pair of component atoms in a compound object basically have their medium of communication be made of a "connector" atom which works as an intermediary (like a telephone wire) for the sake of functional modularity, we find that such a representation is way too notationally verbose. Therefore it is often desirable in practical circumstances to simplify the expression of such a concept down to a single line segment rather than a whole separate atom to which both of the ends are bound.

<005_64>

When an object is made up of multiple atoms, we can imagine that some of them may belong to the same voxel while others may not. Fully specifying such a state of locational diversity purely in terms of atoms and their bindings tends to make things appear too complicated. If we use the notational conventioned stated above, however, the resulting graphical representation becomes so clear that even people who do not understand high school math can see what is going on.

<005_65>

From a holistic viewpoint, we can easily see that the aforementioned set of simplifications help us design our gameplay world in a crystal clear manner. In this discrete universe which is reminiscent of a tabletop game, every point in space is a voxel whose coordinates are just the row and column of the grid. Every object is made up of one or more atoms, each of which occupies one voxel at a time as its current position. And both a voxel and an object-atom can have a list of numbers attached to itself, where each number refers to the energy-level of a potential through which energy can be transmitted.

<005_66>

The space (i.e. grid) is filled with various types of energy potentials and their respective levels, and differences (aka "gradients") between levels of adjacent potentials essentially constitute a "force field" which can be depicted as a distribution of vectors in space. Atoms are naturally disposed to follow these force vectors, which means that we can manipulate the way in which atoms move by simply warping the shape of their field (That is, by changing the energy levels of potentials). And the process of motivation, besides its initial interpretation as an act of temporarily adding a "motive molecule" to the arrangement of atoms, may alternatively be represented as an act of temporarily incrementing/decrementing the levels of a specific group of potentials.

As a whole, this conceptual framework is so generic yet endowed with a sense of mathematical precision, that it is not so hard to imagine the possibility of all sorts of intriguing applications which can be brewed out of it. A wide spectrum of sandbox elements (such as doors, switches, traps, storages, and many others), for instance, can be implemented by first arranging multiple pathways through which certain types of energy exchange can happen, and then letting specific types of events turn on/off some of these pathways in a selective manner (e.g. A key unlocking a door, a foot triggering a signal by stepping on a pressure plate, etc).

This concludes the overview of concepts and their methods of realization in our search for "universal laws of game design".

Since a game is a fairly complex universe in which countless mechanics and narratives are intertwined with one another, it may be claimed that we cannot take account of all of its intricate details and their ensuing varieties. And it is a perfectly valid argument for sure. However, just because something is complex does not mean that we should remain clueless about it and simply confine ourselves to mere trial-and-error methodology. Just as psychology, sociology, political science, economics, and many other academic subjects endeavor to explain the nature of complex systems based upon generalized models, one should regard a similar attempt in the field of game design not as a sign of "overthinking", but as a genuine intent to figure out a reusable set of building blocks out of which games can be assembled.

(End of "Universal Laws of Game Design")