:d:An article about the definition of reality and its semantic nature.
:k:Realism, Idealism, Panpsychism, Materialism, Monism, Ontology, Epistemology, Metaphysics
:l:2023-10-12

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 1] October 12, 2023

What is "real"? And what is "not real"?

When it comes to the matter of defining reality, we often stumble upon the notion that it is not so easy to establish a persistent set of criteria through which any unit of existence in our faculty of reasoning can be identified as either real or unreal.

When somebody asks, "Is X real?", one cannot rightfully reject the inner conviction that the answer to such a question heavily depends on the context to which it belongs.

First of all, what is "X"? We must know what X is in order to be able to tell whether it is real or not.

Secondly, what does "real" even mean? If we suppose that X is a tangible object, will the word "real" imply that a class of objects called "X" can be defined, just as a pink unicorn is capable of being fully described aside from whether or not it is physically present in our material universe?

Or, will it imply that at least one instance of such a class of objects is capable of being observed? And if it can be observed, what mode of observation should be deemed convincing enough to qualify itself as a proof of existence of such an instance? For example, does a pink unicorn which I saw during my last night's dream possess the right to claim itself as an existential evidence of a pink unicorn?

Due to the possibility of such speculations, defining reality and its constituents from a holistic perspective quickly becomes an inexplicably convoluted task whenever we try to reason through it. And this oftentimes urges us to regard the concept of reality as one which appertains to a specific context in which every piece of information is clearly defined.

When somebody asks: "Is 1+1=2 real?", the one who hears such a question typically responds by saying "yes" not because the question alone explains everything, but because both the questioner and the answerer are implicitly agreeing with each other that they are conversing within the context of standard algebra. The answer would've been different if the questioner mentioned beforehand that one is talking about boolean algebra.

When somebody asks: "Is algebra real?", on the other hand, one can be expected to respond with a counter-question such as: "What do you mean by 'real'?". The reason for such an inquiry is that the concept of algebra does not belong to any of the answerer's presumed contexts of reasoning in which it can be classified as either real or unreal. Mathematics defines its own scope of reality in its own context, but it does not necessarily mean that mathematics itself is defined as "real" within a wider context.

Therefore, an easy conclusion which can be drawn from the above observations is that our so-called "reality" is nothing more than a superfluous attribute that is attached to specific domains of reasoning, each of which is "artificial" in the sense that it is formulated out of a set of arbitrary symbols and their relations.

Yet, here is another question which naturally arises out of the mind of pretty much any metaphysical thinker. Is there any entity that is always "real" regardless of the context in which it is being conceived? In other words, does it make any sense to assert that there is a concept which can be defined as a constituent of "absolute reality", which encompasses the whole of our boundary of reasoning?

In order to answer such a fundamental inquiry, one must endeavor to identify the ultimate origin of reason itself, for reason is the source of our definition of what is real and what is unreal. One may disagree with this presupposition and say that not everything can be explained rationally and therefore reason-based thought process alone cannot possibly capture the full picture of what reality is, but I would argue that I am talking about "defining" reality here instead of trying to tell what it is based upon a mere assortment of unstructured impressions.

Such preference is justified under the premise that the words I am writing here are meant to be a discourse and not a dry narration of somebody's daydream. Their purpose is to prove something, and to prove something is to draw conclusions from a set of clearly defined pieces of logic. If somebody is so "creative" as to suggest that not everything can be explained in terms of "boring math equations", I will say that such a line of argument is completely off-topic here.

If we assume for now that the idea of reality itself has its context-free origin, it will be imperative that at least a segment of our faculty of reasoning ought not to be completely free from the necessity to classify units of definition into two disjoint categories: "real" and "unreal". The main reason behind this statement is that, if such a dichotomy is independent from any specific context, it must reside directly under the superset of all conceivable contexts.

Will it ever be feasible, then, to come up with a source of definition which does not depend upon any preceding set of definitions (nor contexts which contain them), yet still manages to yield a predicate which can either be evaluated as "real" or "unreal"?

In order to discover such an underlying fountain of truth, one must unlearn mankind's already established set of worldly prejudices and only retain the bare minimum set of ideas from which one is able to conduct an activity which could be referred to as "reasoning".

(Will be continued in volume 2)







:d:An article about the origin of reality and its theories.
:k:Realism, Idealism, Animism, Materialism, Monism, Ontology, Epistemology, Metaphysics
:l:2023-10-13

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 2] October 13, 2023

(Continued from volume 1)

Searching for the essence of reality is not an easy task, yet there are morsels of intuition which suggest us that its birthplace may be closer to one's soul than anything else. The hard part is to identify this heart of meaning and present it in a way which can be formulated in a language which we can comprehend on a rational basis.

Firstly, let us ask ourselves: "What are the building blocks of reality?" In other words, what are the conceptual ingredients which comprise the set of all possible definitions that can be classified as either "real" or "unreal" outside of any particular context?

There are myriads of theories in academia which proudly give their own answers to this kind of inquiry. Some of them claim that material phenomena (such as laws of mechanics) are the essence of the universe, and that mental activities as well as their ensuing qualia are mere byproducts which emerged out of physical interactions. Others, on the other hand, claim that everything originates from psychological phenomena because even the most materialistic entities (e.g. a solid object) reveal their existence only when they are being perceived by a conscious agent.

There are other groups, too, who rather prefer to avoid taking sides. Some say that both the mind and body possess their own shares of existence, implying that there is some kind of parallelism between what is happening in the psychological realm and what is happening in the physical realm. Others tend to suggest that these two aspects of reality are nothing but two sides of the same coin, which may be characterized by the word "monism".

But before plunging into a typical rigmarole of sophist wordplay, let us retain our sense of decency which encourages us to reason in terms of concepts in their purest form, rather than trying to build layers upon layers of groundless abstraction designed to gratify pseudo-intellectuals whose ego demands its throne in the midst of a jungle of meaningless technicality.

I will first describe to you the limit of my faculty of reasoning, for it is crucial for one to clearly state the boundary of one's intellectual capacity in order to be able to assert the validity of at least a subset of one's worldview. Clearly acknowledged ignorance speaks more truth than all-knowing stupidity.

At the core, my thoughts are the only ingredients from which I am able to formulate my arguments. Without thoughts and their ensuing process of thinking, I can neither define nor prove anything. And if I cannot prove anything, the purpose of this writing will vanish into nothingness. Thus, I have no choice but simply begin my line of metaphysical reasoning from the assumption that my own thoughts are some kind of self-proclaimed existential entities, since it is pretty much as far as my definition of existence can go. This is my limit, and any statement I happen to prove under such a constraint must be bounded by such a limit.

It may be claimed that there is something called "external reality" whose intricacies dwell outside of my domain of thoughts, yet it is pointless to ponder upon it as long as there is no way for me to conceptualize it.

Some people may say that I must be quite narrow-minded if I assert that my thoughts are the only sources of what one could refer to as "reality", since there are also intuitively understood phenomena (such as consciousness) which are antecedent to thoughts themselves.

To this facet of reason, I would say that an isolated bubble of intuition should stay within the realm of intuition only, and not dare to trespass the fortified wall of logic.

On a personal level, for sure, I do feel that I am a conscious being, detached from the rest of the world by means of this mysterious sense of self-awareness of mine which can never be observed anywhere else but within my very self. And some people use this unique angle of impression to back up their claim that there is this thing called "consciousness" which partitions the universe into two distinct types of beings - those which exist inside of one's consciousness, and those which exist outside of it.

Will this dichotomy even make sense, however, if we admit that consciousness itself is not a clearly defined idea in the first place?

I feel that I possess consciousness, yet this is just a feeling. I cannot prove its existence, nor can I tell what it is at all, which means that consciousness is not something which can be defined. All I can say is that I just "feel" it, and as far as my reasoning goes, there is no method through which I can expand my domain of thoughts beyond this crude expression. And since consciousness is undefined, it will be logically fallacious for me to say that "consciousness exists". A statement whose procedure of evaluation depends on an undefined parameter must be expected to be undefined, unless there is a peculiar reason to presuppose that the idea of "undefinedness" itself, when applied to such a statement, provides a way to yield a definable result.

(Will be continued in volume 3)





:d:An article about the meaning of reality and its underlying theoretical bodies of knowledge.
:k:Panpsychism, Monism, Materialism, Ontology, Epistemology, Metaphysics, Philosophy
:l:2023-10-16

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 3] October 16, 2023

(Continued from volume 2)

In order to discover the ultimate origin of reality, one must avoid taking made-up concepts for granted and attempting to produce logical arguments with them as though they are fundamental constituents of reason.

In the previous volume, I have mentioned that my very own thoughts are the only ingredients from which my definition of reality can possibly originate, based upon the premise that the act of reasoning itself can solely be defined as a set of mysterious beings called "thoughts" and their mutual relations.

One may definitely question this viewpoint by saying that the concept of thoughts, too, must be considered arbitrary, and that it is thus quite inadequate to assume that it should form the basis of one's reasoning. And yes, I do admit that the so-called "thoughts" themselves are mere crumbs of intuition which just popped out of nowhere and thus are undefinable in the sense that there is no concept which is antecedent to them.

Another line of reasoning, however, evinces me that the nature of definitions and their collective system of logic do not necessarily require that every definition be preceded by another definition. That is, I do not perceive any particular reason to suppose that the scope of reality must exclude every definition which simply declares the presence of an arbitrary symbol.

Yet, it is also equally important for us to realize that we should not keep inventing truckloads of symbols for the sake of divining the essence of reality, since there is no particular reason to claim that reality can be understood by means of mere plurality of symbols, either.

The subsequent conclusion one is able to reach based off of the above speculations, then, is that the definition of reality as a whole must begin somewhere which may be characterized as arbitrary, yet such a groundless spot of reason must be kept as minimal as possible in order for us to avoid attaching superfluous ornaments on top of its surface.

From my point of view, I would say that my own thoughts, regardless of what they are, constitute such a groundless spot. The main reason behind this is that I cannot define my thoughts in terms of other definitions, which subsequently obliges me to base my reason upon the arbitrary concept called "thoughts" by assuming that it is the ultimate origin of all definitions other than the one which says: "Let there be thoughts".

Still, there may be objections which question the validity of such a conceptual choice. I will list some of the probable ones and try to refute them below.

(Question 1) "How can you so proudly say that nothing precedes your thoughts? Can't we suppose that there could be an external cause, such as your biological brain from which your mental processes originate, which comes before the occurrence of your thoughts?"

(Answer) What does it mean when someone says that something comes "before" or "after" another? Such a relation makes sense only when we presume some kind of order between at least two discrete entities. And this concept called "order" does not intrinsically show us that it is something so unique, that it cannot be made out of thoughts.

(Question 2) "Since you are a thinking agent and there is no evidence that nothing can possibly exist outside of your domain of thoughts, don't you see that there could be external observers (e.g. other people) who possess their own versions of reality which are made up of their own thought processes?"

(Answer) What does "outside" (or "inside") even mean, if all I can conceive are my own thoughts and absolutely nothing else? Unless I decide to split my area of thoughts into arbitrary subareas, there is no such thing as a boundary. And if there is no boundary, the concept of "outside" ("inside") will have no substance. And there is no such thing as an "external observer" either, since an object that is deemed as such is just part of my observation when it comes to pure sense data. I am the only observer in my definition of observation (unless the definition broadens itself out so that any object which functions as an information relay, such as a video recorder, claims its right to be referred to as an observer), which means that there is no reason to attach a special label called "observer" to myself for the purpose of distinguishing myself from "other observers".

(Question 3) "Why are you telling me so confidently that a set of logical definitions are necessary ingredients of reality? Where is your evidence that logic is required for the purpose of illustrating its nature? Can't it be just as equally valid to suggest that an illogical concoction of ideas could serve as an even more accurate representation of what reality is?"

(Answer) To be fair, an illogical juxtaposition of thoughts can be considered part of the initial condition of logic because a fully independent statement does not have to be bounded by a logical constraint (because there would be nothing antecedent to begin with). However, the course of deriving the definition of reality itself cannot be carried out by an illogical process, since it requires logic to derive a definition from an antecedent definition. If we exclude logic from our faculty of reasoning, any groundless supposition which popped out of nowhere will obtain a right to equate itself with reality (in which case any search for truth loses its volition).

(Will be continued in volume 4)







:d:An article about the philosophy of reality and its underlying components.
:k:Plato, Russell, Monism, Type Theory, Category Theory, Morphism, Metaphysics, Philosophy
:l:2023-10-18

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 4] October 18, 2023

(Continued from volume 3)

In the last volume, I suggested the utilization of what are supposedly the most fundamental (indivisible) constituents of reality, which I referred to as "thoughts".

But for the sake of detaching them from the widely accepted yet subjective understanding of what "thoughts" are (e.g. brain activities, etc), I will henceforth start denoting these hypothetical entities by the term "ideas" instead.

It has been assumed that ideas, as long as one's faculty of reasoning declares that no process of logic can possibly involve a parameter which is unable to be broken down to a composition of ideas, must be considered "real" regardless of their inner or outer characteristics. It is because we are trying to come up with a definition of reality here, and such a definition must be derived logically from preceding ones which ultimately trace back to mere declaration of ideas.

Therefore, we will begin by coming up with a sound method of denoting the availability of ideas and a way in which they can be synthesized with one another for the purpose of revealing more variety of patterns. The first axiom to kickstart the whole line of argument is:

"Any arbitrary expression is an idea."

This means that, no matter which expression we choose to speak in our language, it automatically counts as an idea (because in order to express something, the speaker must think about it). Another axiom which must hold in order to assert the validity of its being is:

"Any idea is a fact."

In our worldview, any idea is a "fact" regardless of the context to which it belongs. It is not an intermediary bridge aimed to serve a purpose, nor does it oblige itself to mean anything; it just "is".

Now here is another primitive building block that is needed to let us formulate patterns out of individual ideas - "association". Ideas themselves are nothing more than instances of nil floating in the midst of nowhere; it is only when they associate themselves with one another that they begin to introduce more syntax than a set of isolated points. We henceforth assume here that there must be not just one, but two primitive data types in the grammar of reality - ideas and their associations.

<001>

In the context of mathematics, one can quite reasonably imagine that the domain of knowledge which is being represented here resembles that of graph theory, in the sense that each idea is an equivalent of a vertex and each association is an equivalent of an edge connecting a pair of vertices.

<002>

And this apparent resemblance may prompt some of those enthusiastic mathematicians in academia to insist that the model of reality I am proposing in this writing is nothing more than a mere reiteration of what has already been researched in the field of mathematics as well as other academic disciplines which depend on the language of graphs.

But before being so quick to ejaculate such a preemptive judgement for the purpose of not letting me hurt the feeling of an army of professional student loan consumers, one's got to behold that analyzing the properties of a graph is not the goal we are aiming for; it is just a convenient tool for demonstrating one's route of reason, just as a finger can be utilized to indicate the Moon without having to be the Moon itself.

Another potential objection which may come to surface is that, since I am initiating a whole stream of thoughts based upon a graph-based language, pretty much every one of its ensuing logical conclusions will still be confined to the boundary of graph theory. This may certainly be a valid point to some extent, yet I would argue that if such a side of reasoning is universally applicable without a single exception, it must also be okay to claim that the theory of finite state machines reveals no more knowledge than what a random graph can disclose due to the fact that such machines can be depicted in terms of state diagrams (i.e. directed graphs).

Here is yet another question which might be raised. And that is: "Why graphs in particular?". Why not use sets, algebraic formulas, logical operators, vectors, matrices, geometric figures, computer algorithms, and myriads of other ways of outlining quantitative concepts?

The reason for choosing the language of graphs is that it is probably the most comprehensive medium of illustration when it comes to pure concepts, including those in mathematics.

<003>

A function is just a bunch of input values being mapped to their respective output values, so it is something we can represent as a bipartite graph in which each edge denotes a mapping relation. A set is just a bunch of parent-child relations between itself and its children (i.e. elements), which can be depicted by a graph. A sequence? It is a graph made up of a chain of elements. A matrix? It is just a group of elements arranged in a mesh-like graph. A tree? It is just a graph without a loop. An algebraic expression? It is basically an expression tree, so it is a graph, too. A geometric shape? It is a graph consisting of a bunch of spatial points (vertices) and line segments (edges). A logical statement? It is just a pile of symbols and their relations, which can all be expressed in terms of vertices and edges. The list goes on.

(Will be continued in volume 5)







:d:On the philosophy of reality and the limit of ideas as well as languages which express it.
:k:Idealism, Russell, Wittgenstein, Metaphysics, Philosophy, Epistemology, Ontology, Solipsism
:l:2023-10-19

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 5] October 19, 2023

(Continued from volume 4)

It has hitherto been suggested that the most minimal language which needs to be exhibited in order to let us build a model of reality comprises two fundamental units of existence; one is called "ideas", and the other one is called "associations". And we also saw that the syntactic possibility space which they allow us to traverse is prone to sprout a vivid conviction which tells us that it closely resembles that of graph theory.

The major trouble we are forced to confront at this point is that it is not so straightforward to determine the most optimal direction of intellectual exploration we ought to pursue when we are only given such a tiny set of building blocks to expand our context of reasoning.

To formulate this apprehension a bit more precisely, I would say that there is a dilemma between diversity and minimalism when it comes to approaching the nature of reality.

<004>

On the one hand, a person may begin the journey by simply identifying whatever pops up in one's mind as an idea, and then freely associating it with other randomly popped up ideas in a completely orderless manner.

An example of this is not so difficult to illustrate. Suppose that the idea of an old-fashioned American doughnut just crossed my mind. This makes me declare that "Old-fashioned American doughnut" is an idea which can be depicted as a single point. Subsequently, I realize that this particular type of doughnut shares close resemblance with other types of doughnuts, such as Krispy Kreme's original glazed doughnut, Safeway's blueberry-flavored doughnut in U District, Seattle, and countless others. For the sake of free association, I declare all such instances as individual ideas, and draw a near-infinite number of lines among every one of them because they all share similarities with one another due to the fact that they are all doughnuts. And- oh! By the way, I know a celebrity who likes doughnuts, so let's express this person as an idea and associate it with the aforementioned ideas, too, and so on.

If I keep allowing my stream of consciousness to lead me through this endless rabbit hole of seemingly random whims, I will soon find myself trapped inside a jungle of chaos, hardly capable of extracting any recognizable pattern from the hidden source of truth from which my thoughts are assumed to originate.

<005>

Alternatively, a person may as well choose to start one's analysis by only dealing with ideas which are purely abstract in the sense that they can only be represented in terms of mathematical symbols. Such ideas are akin to what vertices are in graph theory; they do not mean anything other than that they are arbitrary entities being defined within the context of the mathematical theory to which they belong.

An example of this is just as easy to describe as that of the former. I may choose to declare two ideas called "A" and "B", and that these two are associated with each other under the name "C". This case is far simpler than the convoluted mess we witnessed before; here, we are able to safely analyze such an isolated body of imagination without having to constantly ask ourselves, "What if there is something else I am missing here?"

At least within the scope of this strictly limited context, the aforementioned components (i.e. A, B, and C) cover the entirety of what we are supposed to reason with; they collectively form a controlled environment, which is reminiscent of an isolated chamber inside a scientific laboratory.

This is indeed neat, and it rescues us from the pain of having to exhaustively search for all possible ways in which we can enumerate and arrange our thoughts for the sake of making sure that the collective sum of what we are reasoning with is fully disclosed and thorough. This method, however, comes with its own downside.

Suppose that I come up with a set of arbitrary symbols (such as A and B) and call them "ideas". I may also make a bunch of random associations among them, and label them with yet another set of arbitrary symbols. Then what? If I simply keep doing this and try to map out a whole spectrum of ways in which such entities can be composed, I will only enable myself to find out a list of emergent properties which are confined to the study of graphs, which is essentially nothing more than what math people have already done a million times in their natural habitat.

This is one of the curses of minimalistic abstraction. An a priori concept, seemingly untainted by any empirical relation, exercises its own dimension of infinite power by claiming its right to potentially mean anything, yet it never means anything specifically. Such a tenacious level of detachment from our worldly concerns makes it an inadequate means of propelling ourselves toward the direction of where truth is expected to be, since our everyday experiences do constitute part of our reality and therefore should be taken into account, no matter how superficial and distorted they might be when interpreted by our senses.

(Will be continued in volume 6)






:d:On the philosophy of reality and the nature of ideas.
:k:Metaphysics, Philosophy, Epistemology, Data Science, Logic
:l:2023-10-22

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 6] October 22, 2023

(Continued from volume 5)

One's search for reality usually begins with the problem of abstracting out our worldly sensations for the purpose of approaching the unified essence which is hidden behind the apparent chaos we face every day.

There are so many things happening before us at every moment, and it takes a substantial degree of theism to suppose that there is a supreme order which encompasses the ultimate ensemble of what we can sense and reason with. Even the most reductionist of all sciences is not exempt from this, as it still presumes that the universe is being governed by a law which dictates that almost every form of complexity is reducible to simpler ones.

And the usual conjecture of ours is that the more abstract our context of reasoning becomes, the more accurately we will be able to embrace the nature of such a law. The primary reason behind this is that the total number of generic ideas is far smaller than that of specific ideas. Fewer things are usually easier to handle than many.

Yet, we should be aware that there are different methods through which the course of abstraction can be carried out. In the previous volume, I demonstrated the problem of groundless abstraction which evinced a tendency to immure itself in its own tiny cell of contextual independence - a minimalist's badge of intellectual superiority which ignites the heart of pure mathematicians with a subtle kind of fervor, yet never quite sympathizes with the tides of everyday life.

If we begin our train of thoughts with the most minimal fragments of qualia we can possibly express in our language, such as numbers, vectors, sets, algebraic symbols, operators, and the like, we will indeed be able to construct an isolated playground of reason in which we have the freedom to commit whichever genre of conceptual masturbation we desire.

Such a self-made prison of thoughts, however, is so intrinsically disconnected from our immediate senses, that it presents us with an exceptional challenge when it comes to laying down a semantic bridge between itself and the rest of the world.

But then, of course, we cannot abandon the necessity of mathematical simplification altogether because otherwise we will soon be lost amidst a vast field of infinite possibilities. This leads to the conviction that the key lies somewhere between free association and pure abstraction.

<006>

How to draw the landscape of this middle ground is yet another problem to solve. Fortunately, there is one major tool which comes in handy - generalization.

Take a black cat as an example. This lovely creature can be represented as an idea because we are able to think about it. Furthermore, it makes sense to state that there are other kinds of cats as well, such as white cats, ginger cats, Siamese cats, Persian cats, and etc.

These cats have one commonality in them in the sense that every one of them belongs to the particular class of feline beings which is typified by the word "cat", and a succinct way of expressing such a concept is to associate all these subspecies with the single binding point called "cat".

<007>

Here, we are able to witness that the degree of abstraction deeply correlates with the topology of associations. The more an idea associates itself with others, the more abstract it becomes due to the notion that it functions as a means of convergence by which those with shared traits are taxonomically grouped together.

Such a method of genericizing concrete ideas into more general ones suggests us that we can keep building layers upon layers of abstraction this way. For instance, a cat is one of many types of mammals, a mammal is one of many types of animals, and an animal is one of many types of organisms. An organism is one of many types of objects, and an object is one of many types of ideas we can ever conceive.

<008>

This cascade of reason then guides us to model our universe as one gigantic hierarchy of beings, which is basically a tree of nodes from a computational standpoint. The closer you get to its leaves, the more specific your ideas will be. The closer you get to its root, the more generic your ideas will be.

And the benefit of this classification-oriented formulation is that, unlike free association which is prone to conjure a great deal of chaos, it retains some kind of directionality in the way in which ideas are being associated. What we are seeing here is a nicely streamlined branching pattern, rather than a helplessly intertwined hairball of connections.

One must not be so quick to conclude that the whole of our reality is required to be summarized as a tree, though, since there are reasons to say that each idea could be explicated in terms of not just inheritance but also composition.

Let us imagine that there are four ideas which are called "black dog", "white dog", "black cat", and "white cat" respectively. It is not difficult to understand that "black dog" and "white dog" can both be associated with the idea of "dog", and that "black cat" and "white cat" can both be associated with the idea of "cat". This creates a level of abstraction which groups four ideas into two.

A slightly different angle of view, however, tells us that it is also possible to group these four ideas by their chromatic attributes. For example, "black dog" and "black cat" can both be associated with the idea of "black", whereas "white dog" and "white cat" can both be associated with the idea of "white".

And both of the aforementioned interpretations are valid as far as our usual habit of cognition goes, which subsequently makes it reasonable to let them simply coexist, thereby suggesting that a series connection of bipartite graphs should probably portray the map of our reality in a more accurate manner.

<009>

(Will be continued in volume 7)







:d:On the philosophy of reality and the nature of ideas.
:k:Metaphysics, Philosophy, Epistemology, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Feature Space
:l:2023-10-24

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 7] October 24, 2023

(Continued from volume 6)

In the previous volume, it was clearly demonstrated that at least the facade of our reality is capable of being modelled as a sequence of abstraction layers, whose direction of divergence corresponds to the process of specification and whose direction of convergence corresponds to the process of generalization.

It was also suggested that, due to the possibility of composition among qualities, each layer of abstraction gives birth to a bipartite graph which topologically resembles that of a neural network.

It will be too rash to conclude, however, that such a directed arrangement of ideas and their associations completes the full picture of what reality is made out of.

First of all, the conceptual bridges I have been laying down in the recent example (e.g. black cat, white cat, etc) are quite suspiciously adduced by intuition and therefore should be deemed too inappropriate to constitute a legitimate portion of our system of logic.

If someone asks me to explain the choice I have been making from a common sense point of view, I will confidently say that a black cat and a white cat are both cats and therefore they both deserve to be associated with the idea "cat". But if someone asks me to prove why such a choice must be correct, I will probably have to consult the virtue of statistics and say that I made such a decision because the majority of people agree that it is a decent way of grouping ideas together.

Yet this methodology can hardly avoid the accusation that it is based upon a set of arbitrary assumptions, one of which is: "The majority's opinion is the right opinion". And you know that the usual fate of populism is mediocracy, as well as that there is no particular reason to believe that the position of truth coincides with the center of mass of our collective body of knowledge.

The root of the problem of subjectivity lies on the very definition of association itself. So far, I have been implicitly supposing that two ideas are "associated" if conceiving one of them lets me conceive the other. And this kind of formulation is pretty fuzzy in the sense that the phenomenon of conception is not so satisfactorily consistent outside of the domain of experimental psychology (e.g. causal relation between stimulus and reflex).

Thus in order to build a clear foundation of reason, it is crucial to transcend the semantic ambiguity of our raw ingredients called "associations" and begin thinking in higher dimensions.

As soon as we notice that ideas are able to establish connections with one another, one must take into account the possibility that these things could represent different types of relations. The biggest challenge here is in figuring out how many types there are and how they should be defined.

Before trying to come up with rather specific examples (so as not to trap ourselves inside a mud pool of mere wordplay), one's got to first devise a structural basis upon which subsequent thought experiments acquire their opportunities to participate. And for this purpose, let us start by recognizing some of the common patterns which are being exhibited by what we typically refer to as "relations".

Love of minimalism hints us that there are two major categories of relations - undirected and directed.

<010>

If we imagine that there are two ideas called "A" and "B", we will be able to declare that there is a relation between A and B which does not depend on the order in which these two subjects are being treated (such as "A and B are in the same group" or "A and B are close to each other"). This order-independence allows it to be represented by a single intermediary idea which functions as a stepping stone between A and B.

We can also envision a relation whose definition depends on the order between A and B (such as "A comes before B" or "B sends a message to A"). We need to denote this sort of relation by a pair of intermediary ideas instead of just one, for the purpose of giving directionality to it.

Let us revisit the scenery of the previous example and suppose that there are two ideas called "black cat" and "black dog". Intuition tells us that these two are both associated with the idea "black", yet our thirst for logical clarity also renders it necessary to identify "black" as a functional binding point rather than a hazy stockroom of "some things here and there that look like they should be put together".

The idea "black" combines "black cat" and "black dog" into the same group, based on the premise that they share a relation which could be illustrated as "chromatic coincidence".

<011>

In this interpretation, we may as well say that "black" is not just an idea, but also a relation which binds "black cat" and "black dog" together based upon their proximity in color space. Whether this proximity is sufficiently high as to justify the existence of such a relation does introduce a bit of room for subjectivity, yet it is not so hard to defer the necessity to resolve such a problem by simply fantasizing that there is only one absolute threshold somewhere in the universe which tells us exactly how much closeness is "close enough".

(Will be continued in volume 8)






:d:An article about a computational model of reality as well as the concept of existence.
:k:Computational Metaphysics, Computational Philosophy, Mechanical Ontology, Theory of Knowledge
:l:2023-10-29

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 8] October 29, 2023

(Continued from volume 7)

Interpreting our ideas as relations is a pretty neat way of making sense of the world around us. However, it also compels us to ask ourselves whether it is absolutely necessary to separate ideas into two distinct categories called "relations" and "non-relations".

We should note that there is another question which must be taken into consideration. It is the question of whether there is any idea which is incapable of being considered a relation.

In the previous example, we saw that the idea "black" could be defined as a chromatic coincidence between "black cat" and "black dog". It is not hard to imagine that, in a similar fashion, the idea "cat" could be defined as a structural coincidence between "black cat" and "white cat" because these two are sufficiently close to each other in their morphological feature space.

<012>

What about the parameters of the aforementioned relations, such as "black cat", "white cat", etc? Are they just standalone units of perception which cannot be described in terms of ways in which they function as semantic binding points?

Let us consider "black cat" for example. When I see an amorphous patch of blackness before me, I just call it "black" without mentioning the word "cat" because I do not perceive in this patch any form which can be identified as a cat. Likewise, when I see the shape of a cat before me which does not have any particular color in it, I just call it "cat" without mentioning the word "black" because I do not perceive any blackness in this shape.

And the reason why neither of the two cases shown here can be termed "black cat" is straightforward; neither of them attaches "black" and "cat" to the same physical location, which is proven by the fact that it is possible for me to look at one of them without looking at the other. This allows me to say that "black cat" is a positional coincidence between "black" and "cat".

<013>

And the major takeaway from this is that there seems to be nothing which stops us from fancying that every idea is a relation, and that every relation can be depicted in terms of other relations (e.g. coincidences).

<014>

What makes it possible to freely translate from one layer of abstraction to another, according to the observation we have been making, is the availability of different categories of coincidence. Chromatic and structural coincidences give birth to the process of generalization which is based upon chromatic/structural proximity, and positional coincidences give birth to the process of specification which is based upon locational proximity.

This is obviously not the end of the story, though. I still haven't explained the reason why there are apparently multiple kinds of coincidences, nor have I made any endeavor whatsoever to analyze their conceptual details.

A couple of thought experiments are necessary to investigate this problem. Let us first assume that there is only one object called "black cat" somewhere in an empty space. And let us also assume that I am a bodiless spectator whose range of observation is confined to this empty space. In this particular context, no matter where I look at, the only two options I have is: (1) To see both "black" and "cat" simultaneously at a given moment, or (2) To see neither "black" nor "cat" at a given moment.

The reason why this constraint holds is that, under the condition stated above, the idea of "black" and the idea of "cat" are both anchored to the same spot in physical space, which makes it impossible for me to observe one of them without observing the other. This is the quantitative definition of "positional coincidence".

Other types of coincidence should share the same mechanistic root. In the case of chromatic coincidence, the empty space I illustrated above may be composed of color dimensions such as R (Red), G (Green), and B (Blue) instead of the usual spatial dimensions such as X, Y, and Z. In the case of structural coincidence, it may be composed of morphological dimensions such as length, compactness, surface area, and so forth.

In this regard, we might as well claim that a coincidence essentially means a collision between a pair of entities in a hypothetical coordinate system, which is a subspace of the universal continuum of ideas (i.e. "idea space").

<015>

It is not difficult to imagine that the idea space is the ultimate collection of every idea we can ever manage to conceive. If we just suppose for a moment that this space only consists of two independent aspects of qualia called "position" and "color", we will be able to assert that every idea is a piece of data which contains two properties in it - position and color.

And if we proceed to say that a position is a 3D vector (denoted by X,Y,Z) and a color is also a 3D vector (denoted by R,G,B), it will automatically suggest that an idea is a set of coordinate value specifications inside a 6-dimensional model of the idea space, wherein the first 3 components indicate its physical dimensions and the last 3 indicate its color dimensions.

If all 6 of these coordinate values are specified, the idea will be a point. If only 5 of them are specified and others are left unbounded, it will be a line. If only 4 of them are specified and others are left unbounded, it will be a plane, and so forth.

(Will be continued in volume 9)






:d:A computational interpretation of metaphysics and possibly its underlying ontology.
:k:Computer Science, Metaphysics, Ontology, Philosophy, Computational Logic
:l:2023-10-31

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 9] October 31, 2023

(Continued from volume 8)

As long as we suppose that an idea is a set of coordinate value specifications inside the space of all conceivable ideas, we have the authority to tell that any idea can be modelled as a vector wherein each element is either an unbounded variable or a constant.

The "idea of idea" is the ultimate root of all other ideas. It represents the whole volume of the idea space, and is indicated by a vector which is unbounded in every direction.

The idea of "black" is basically the RGB value of (0, 0, 0). If we assume that the idea space comprises only two distinct quantities called "position" (X, Y, Z) and "color" (R, G, B), as well as that they are juxtaposed under the format: (X, Y, Z, R, G, B), "black" will be formulated as the vector: (X, Y, Z, 0, 0, 0). Here, (X, Y, Z) are variables and (0, 0, 0) are constants.

Similarly, the idea of the origin (center) of our physical space, since it can be written as the XYZ value of (0, 0, 0), will be rendered as the vector: (0, 0, 0, R, G, B). Here, (0, 0, 0) are constants and (R, G, B) are variables.

For the sake of visual simplicity, let me fancy for now that the idea space is just a 2D vector space with only two scalar components: color and position.

<016>

In this experimental scenario, the idea "black" only possesses a fixed color value and does not care about its position because a color can potentially appear anywhere in space. Therefore, such an idea is a line which spans the entire spatial axis and confines itself to a single color.

On the other hand, the idea of "the origin" only possesses a fixed position and does not care about its color because a point in space does not require any chromatic attribute to describe itself. Therefore, such an idea is a line which spans the entire chromatic axis while sticking itself to a single physical spot.

And the point of intersection between these two lines is the idea which represents the existence of the given color at the given location, due to the fact that its chromatic and locational elements are both fully specified. It is an instance of coincidence between the two dimensions of qualia.

From a computational standpoint, one may as well say that the conception of the aforementioned coincidence is functionally analogous to a logical operator which receives a pair of vectors as its parameters and outputs a new vector which is the result of collapsing some of their infinite numerical ranges down to pinpoint quantities (constants). The reason behind this is pretty simple; if you have an unknown variable called X and a statement which says that X is equal to 0, your conclusion will obviously be that any instance of X can be replaced with 0.

<017>

Reduction of dimensions through geometric intersection, however, is not the only type of coincidence demonstrated in our previous "cats and dogs" example. We also have coincidences which increment the number of dimensions by means of generalization which, instead of discovering the intersection between two geometric volumes, creates a brand new volume which contains both of them.

Imagine that we are living in a 9-dimensional idea space, wherein each idea consists of 3 physical dimensions (X, Y, Z), 3 chromatic dimensions (R, G, B), and 3 structural dimensions (S1, S2, S3).

And let us further suppose that, for ease of graphical illustration, we are plotting such ideas inside a hypothetical 3D space made up of three virtual dimensions: A single physical axis which substitutes the X, Y, Z values, a single color axis which substitutes the R, G, B values, and a single structural axis which substitutes the S1, S2, S3 values.

If we declare that:

(1) In the color dimension, 0 means black and 1 means white.
(2) In the structural dimension, 0 means cat and 1 means dog.

Then this will subsequently lead us to the following conclusions:

(1) The idea of "black" is a plane crossing every point in space which satisfies the condition: "color = 0".
(2) The idea of "cat" is a plane crossing every point in space which satisfies the condition: "structure = 0".
(3) The idea of "black cat" is a line crossing every point in space which satisfies the two conditions: "color = 0, structure = 0".
(4) The idea of "black dog" is a line crossing every point in space which satisfies the two conditions: "color = 0, structure = 1".

<018>

The so-called "coincidences" which were rather clumsily depicted before are now fully explicable in terms of geometric operations. The process of generalization (e.g. "black cat" and "black dog" being abstracted out into a generic class called "black") is equivalent to the creation of the smallest volume which contains both of the given volumes, and the process of specification (e.g. "black" and "cat" being synthesized into a specific object called "black cat") is equivalent to the identification of the intersection between the given volumes.

<019>

Numerically speaking, I may as well propose that generalization is the same thing as resolving the mismatch between two constants by turning them into a variable, whereas specification is the same thing as discarding a variable under the presence of a constant.

(Will be continued in volume 10)







:d:On computational metaphysics and mathematical epistemology.
:k:Computational Mathematics, Computational Philosophy, Metaphysics, Computational Geometry, Semantics
:l:2023-11-08

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 10] November 2, 2023

(Continued from volume 9)

From a holistic perspective, my faculty of reasoning suggests that our reality consists of discrete entities called "ideas", and that each idea is a vector which resides in the idea space. If there are N dimensions of qualia in total, this all-encompassing space will have to be made out of N dimensions.

It has so far been explained that the so-called "coincidences" among ideas are essentially just geometric operations happening in such a space, as well as that each of them is also capable of being carried out on a computational basis by means of numerical filters.

One might be tempted to continue expanding this stream of consciousness by asking questions such as: "What if we take the union of two ideas instead of their intersection?", "What if we measure the difference between two ideas and come up with their derivative?", and so forth.

However, the main objective of my writing is to discover the fundamental root of reality itself, rather than to keep digging its treasure cave of mathematical intricacies. Such intellectually stimulating details may indeed be of great use in practical scenarios (e.g. engineering), but they do not necessarily encourage us to approach the heart of our universe's divine order because they are based upon an arbitrary assumption which rather dogmatically claims that our ideas are made up of a set of hypothetical beings called "dimensions".

In order to seriously search for the origin of reality instead of falling into the trap of "Abstraction for abstraction's sake", we better stop concentrating too much on the existing theory's internal synthetic revelations and instead question the validity of the theory itself.

According to the model I have devised so far, reality is defined in terms of ideas and each idea is defined in terms of dimensions. If we desire to confirm that this sort of conception is reasonable, therefore, we must be able to assure that a dimension really is an irreplaceable part of our ontology.

What is a "dimension", anyways? From a pragmatic point of view, one may say that we use dimensions to differentiate one thing from another. The presence of a dimension called X, for example, lets us tell that point (X = 0) is different from point (X = 1) because they do not coincide in dimension X. In other words, the notion of "difference" is what necessitates the introduction of dimensions in our faculty of logic.

Besides, it is the reason why we have the concept of numbers in the first place; we use a number to indicate a distinct mode of perception. Since we typically imagine that there are different types of qualia which do not mix up with one another (e.g. length, duration, weight, brightness, loudness, etc), such a number usually belongs to one of many independent dimensions.

From a purely functional view, though, one cannot simply resist the urge to suggest that the so-called "dimension" is just a superfluous concept whose sole purpose is to help us categorize our senses, due to the fact that a single number can apparently represent multidimensional data. If we suppose that the dimension X only comprises integer values in range [0, 3] and that the dimension Y only comprises integer values in range [0, infinity], for instance, we will simply be able to state that each point in the (X,Y) coordinate system can uniquely be characterized as "X + 4Y", which is just a single scalar quantity.

<020>

And the reason why this technical possibility is of importance is that it appears to evince the lack of any necessity to presume the existence of multiple types of qualia which are so fundamentally isolated from one another, that their collective sum can never be expressed as a single numerical value.

Colloquially, I would definitely say that a color and a musical pitch are separate phenomena which belong to separate dimensions. In the strictly metaphysical sense, however, it is not so straightforward to find a decisive proof that they are not just samples occupying different regions of the same exact spectrum of sensory information.

Yet there is a clue which may suggest otherwise. When I think of a multitude of colors, I consider them as specific instances of the same class called "color", which is supposedly distinct from other classes. And a minimal graph-based illustration of this would be a nodal depiction of the idea of "color" which associates itself with the "idea of idea" (because a color is an idea) as well as color variants such as black, white, yellow, cyan, magenta, and so on.

<021>

A mathematical interpretation of this is that: (1) The "idea of idea" is the universal set of all ideas, (2) The idea of "color" is a subset of this universal set, and (3) Each specific color, such as "black", is a subset of the "color" set.

<022>

The previous multidimensional model fits this set analogy pretty nicely, in the sense that each geometric subvolume of the idea space is a spatial equivalent of a subset. In order to think outside of this tiny box of dimension-oriented reasoning, though, one must break away from the utilization of coordinate axes and begin handling data with a somewhat transcendental disposition of elegance.

(Will be continued in volume 11)







:d:On computational philosophy and its mathematical basis.
:k:Computational Philosophy, Mechanical Psychology, Set Theory, Ontology, Type Theory, Category Theory
:l:2023-11-05

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 11] November 5, 2023

(Continued from volume 10)

When we think of a network of ideas as a nested body of sets, what we are able to witness is that there is a strong parallel between itself and its functionally analogous representations.

First, I showed you that ideas and their respective relations could be illustrated as a graph in which each vertex denotes an idea and each edge denotes a relation between ideas.

Secondly, I came up with a more quantitatively satisfying model which characterized ideas as vectors in a hypothetical space (aka "feature space" or "conceptual space"), wherein each dimension carries its own distinct way of measuring our senses.

And by the end of the last volume, I hinted the feasibility of imagining that an idea is a set, which suggests that a relation can be depicted in terms of a set operator.

A precise description of this framework requires an example. Let us suppose that the "idea of idea" is the universal set which contains all other ideas. And Let us say that "color" and "structure" are two of its subsets.

We can keep expanding this thought experiment pretty easily. Since "black" is one of many chromatic subtypes, it is a subset of "color". Since "cat" is one of many structural subtypes, it is a subset of "structure". The list goes on.

Now here is something slightly trickier; what about "black cat"? At first the hierarchical impression of sets seems to prevent us from formulating such a synthetic idea, but a bit of intuition soon leads us to the conviction that a composition (i.e. positional coincidence) between two ideas can be found within their intersection.

Likewise, "black" can be defined as a chromatic coincidence between "black cat" and "black dog" based upon the premise that the union between "black cat" and "black dog" is a subset of "black".

In other words, one is able to say that the process of generalization (i.e. mapping of multiple specific ideas to one abstract idea) involves a union of sets, whereas the process of specification (i.e. mapping of multiple abstract ideas to one specific idea) involves an intersection of sets. Such a construct reveals its own analogy in boolean algebra as well, in which the logical OR (+) operator translates to generalization (i.e. identification of a common feature in multiple places) and the logical AND (x) operator translates to specification (i.e. composition of multiple features in one place).

<023>

So, what's the point of building and showcasing such an analogous model, which is not even much simpler than our previous vector-based system? And yes - this bit of skepticism is totally understandable, as it looks like all I did was simply reinterpret my format of discourse from analytical geometry to set theory.

However, one should also note that the set analogy provides us with a quite elucidating evidence that qualia do not have to be numerical in nature. Unlike dimensions and their coordinate axes, sets do not require numbers to signify their presence because they are symbolically defined.

Fundamentally speaking, though, I do admit that numbers are symbols too. And the reason behind this is that a line of numbers can be fancied as a directed chain of symbols, each of which possesses only up to one incoming edge and one outgoing edge.

<024>

Such a chain may be referred to as a "dimension" as long as we assume that it endows us with a unique way of partitioning our fabric of thoughts.

One must be aware, however, of the fact that a sequence is just one of many possibilities. Once we have symbols in our intellectual playground, nothing prevents us from joining them in the manner of a generic graph in which there is a plethora of potential variances such as branches, loops, and so on.

So the general sentiment I have in regard to the necessity of numerical quantification is that of skepticism. At least from a technical perspective, a number line is nothing more than a special case of what we can do with symbols. And it is not so easy to divine a clue which imposes a decisive reason why we must prefer such a case over others.

A set-based model frees us from numerical reasoning at least, while its ontological basis is still quite artificial in the sense that it presumes the existence of arbitrary categories such as "black" and "cat".

It does indeed look like there is no external source of truth which dictates that our taxonomy of ideas must be taken for granted without presupposing some degree of subjectivity, yet I would still say that a set is closer to the heart of truth than a dimension because, at least, the language of sets does not limit the arrangement of symbols to a linear pattern.

The next question lies on the legitimacy of set-based thinking. Its underlying motivation is that, for the sake of exercising our faculty of reason, we must somehow come up with a method of classifying our thoughts, for otherwise we will be stuck in the eternal inactivity of universal oneness - the bodiless spirit of unity from which nothing differentiable arises.

(Will be continued in volume 12)







:d:On computational representation of our reality and its underlying philosophy.
:k:Computational Metaphysics, Symbolic Metaphysis, Dualism, Idealism, Epistemology
:l:2023-11-07

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 12] November 7, 2023

(Continued from volume 11)

So far, it has been suggested that a set-based model of ideas is more elegant than its multidimensional counterpart because it more directly derives its symbolic structure from the core of reason. Unlike dimensions which necessitate the use of numerical quantities, sets more concisely reflect the way in which we classify our thoughts.

It is the very notion of classification itself and its ensuing "multitude of beings", however, which even set theory fails to illustrate from an ontological standpoint. Why do we believe that there are "many things", as opposed to "one thing"?

Perhaps the simplest explanation is that if we do not presume the plurality of existence, there will be no way for us to justify any thought process. What is the point of thinking, if there is only one all-encompassing essence of being which provides absolutely no room for any comparison?

This pragmatic morsel of wisdom, however, inevitably generates the impression that it merely puts a bandage on an intellectual hole in order to deliberately ignore a fundamental inquiry which deserves to be answered.

When it comes to exploring the origin of what makes us think the way we think, one cannot overlook the importance of stepping aside from the pool of manifold imagination and begin reconstructing one's foundation of logic from the most minimalistic building blocks one can ever conceive, for it is how we prevent ourselves from getting stuck in the midst of complexity.

Thus, it is crucial to unlearn the theoretical architecture which has hitherto been described for now and start afresh from a blank sheet of paper.

<025>

At the genesis of one's cognizance, there is unity. It is the heart of our knowledge - the absolute point of universal symmetry at which everything comes and goes at once. It is the source of oneness which fills up the entirety of space and time, yet possesses neither volume nor movement. It is nothingness itself, which is so utterly nil that we cannot even define it (because even a definition is "something" which must be capable of distinguishing itself from nothing).

In this spirit of singularity, we have nothing to conceive in our mind due to the lack of any way of "not" conceiving anything, for there must be a boundary of contrast between an act and the absence of an act in order for us to let ourselves state that something exists. As long as everything is one, there is no contrast. And where there is no contrast, existence is nonsense.

<026>

Therefore, the bare minimum of syntax which we must cogitate for the purpose of establishing some form of ontology is that of dualism - the opposition between a pair of entities, each of which rationalizes its own presence based upon its differentiation from the other.

There are numerous types of dualism, such as good and evil, brightness and darkness, positivity and negativity, proximity and distance, fullness and emptiness, action and reaction, push and pull, up and down, etc. Every one of them comes as a pair, since neither of its two halves makes sense without the other half.

A major problem lies on the matter of configuration, though. When we desire to express the nature of dualistic properties as a schema rather than an assortment of vague metaphors, what we invariably encounter is an enormous list of alternative choices, every one of which claims its own right to be considered legitimate.

I have been basing my system of reasoning on the belief that everything which constitutes our reality is reducible to an assembly of ideas and their associations; such an assumption narrows down our spectrum of choices, yet it still leaves us with a number of equally feasible symbolic arrangements.

<027>

For example, if there are two ideas corresponding to two mutually opposing forces, should we say that they are simply associated with each other? Or, should they be associated with yet another idea called "duality" which explicitly indicates that the two are supposed to make up a dyad?

The answer is that it depends on the meaning of association. If it is synonymous with "mutual contrast", we will be able to ensure that a single association is all we need to express dualism. If not, we will need an intermediary idea to denote such a relation.

And here is a clue which helps us solve this dilemma. It has been assumed that oneness is not a sufficient condition for existence because it requires us to think of nonexistence as the complement to existence, the process of which presupposes the availability of multiple entities. Thus the very notion of distinction, hence its underlying suggestion of duality, dictates that our most primeval units of being (i.e. ideas and associations), in order for them to "exist", must inherently pose dualism in them.

<028>

And since an idea itself does not enable the conception of plurality (because nothing differentiable arises from where there is only one idea), association is what duality is.

(Will be continued in volume 13)







:d:On the philosophy of reality and its computational model.
:k:Computer Science, Philosophy, Metaphysics, Epistemology, Ontology, Mathematics
:l:2023-11-10

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 13] November 10, 2023

(Continued from volume 12)

The essence of our reality resides in ideas as well as their mutual associations. And since an association presumes the availability of multiple ideas, we cannot deny that the soul of oneness does not cover the whole picture of what can be defined as "real".

Reality stems from existence, and existence stems from our cognizance of difference. And the most elementary form of difference is duality because once we perceive that there are two things instead of just one, we say: "This thing is different from the other". This is the moment at which the heart of our intuition inevitably acknowledges that differentiation is a necessary precondition of plurality.

<029>

In the beginning, there is this thing called "duality" which comprises a pair of ideas. Our common sense tells us that such a dichotomous construct alone does not fully explain the sheer complexity of our universe, since our experiences are not a mere collection of coin flips happening between the two most extreme stimuli (e.g. pure pain and pure pleasure).

However, one may still argue that a fine-grained grayscale sensation, too, is essentially just a compound of microscopic dualities, just like a piece of digital data can be formulated as an array of binary digits.

In order to justify such potency of emergence, one must come up with a topological example which is reducible to an assembly of simple dyads yet still reflects the pattern of our cognition.

Suppose that there is an intermediary idea situated right in between the two poles of duality. This third entity presents us with an instance of synchronicity which serves as a unifier of the duo (aka "superposition"). It is also a relation because it tells us how one thing is related to the other.

<030>

As we fancy that our material universe is nothing more than a combination between two possible states which can be referred to as "empty" (i.e. minimum density of matter) and "full" (i.e. maximum density of matter), we realize that there are two primary ways of defining space. One is that space is a mixture between emptiness and fullness (because "space" has no meaning inside a completely uniform distribution of energy, whether its amplitude be minimum of maximum), and the other one is that space is something which emptiness and fullness both have in common.

<031>

The former signifies the idea of "form", which can be phrased as "emptiness AND fullness" coexisting in the same place. The latter signifies the idea of "space", which can be phrased as "emptiness OR fullness" coexisting as optional characteristics which can be added to the same place.

The resulting schema consists of two equally valid types of triad, one descending and the other one ascending the universal hierarchy of beings. The "AND" operator presents us with a specific composition which assigns itself to a lower layer of abstraction by means of combination, whereas the "OR" operator presents us with a shared archetype which assigns itself to a higher layer of abstraction by means of correlation.

The four direct pairs among the aforementioned four ideas (i.e. Emptiness, Fullness, Form (= emptiness AND fullness), and Space (= emptiness OR fullness)) can be illustrated as:

(1) Space <---> Emptiness
(2) Space <---> Fullness
(3) Form <---> Emptiness
(4) Form <---> Fullness

The first duality makes sense because emptiness presupposes the existence of space, for there would be nothing capable of being empty if there were no such thing as space. And space cannot exist without emptiness because a universe solely made out of vacuum of indefinite size, which does not permit any distribution of mass in it, does not endue the concept of distance with any recognizable meaning due to the immeasurability of uniformity, thus preventing the definition of space from establishing itself (because space is defined in terms of distances).

Fullness, too, is rooted in such a presupposition for an equivalent reason, which subsequently validates the second duality.

The overall implication of the two statements above is that both emptiness and space, as well as fullness and space, are complementary pairs which cannot be broken down to isolated thoughts.

The third and fourth dualities make sense because the presence of emptiness/fullness depends on the availability of a form, which is a morphological construct comprising spatial points that are either occupied or unoccupied by mass. Without a form, space is nothing more than a uniform field. Whether such a field is "completely empty" or "completely full" does not mean anything from a functional standpoint.

This is reminiscent of the fact that an electric circuit which operates under the source voltage of 5V and ground voltage of 0V exhibits the same exact behavior as one with the identical configuration which operates under the source voltage of 0V and ground voltage of -5V. A quantitative value itself is just a linguistic construct; it is the difference between values which gives birth to observable phenomena.

(Will be continued in volume 14)






:d:On a mathematical interpretation of metaphysical ideas.
:k:Metaphysics, Ontology, Theosophy, Theology, Theism, Computer Science
:l:2023-11-16

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 14] November 16, 2023

(Continued from volume 13)

What I have hitherto been expounding may sound superstitious to some extent. One might even proceed to claim that the theory which has been illustrated so far is hardly anything more than a typical rambling of pseudoscience.

But I am not here to talk about "crystal energy", "astral projection", or any other sugary morsel of mysticism. My goal instead is to put aside all such fantasies which have been confounding the minds of truth seekers, and simply endeavor to divine the essence of reality by means of honest speculation.

The so-called "emptiness" and "fullness" are rather concrete analogies intended to help us grasp the overall worldview in a tangible fashion. The spirit of what is being implied by their duality is the concept of diversity - the realization that we are able to distinguish one thing from another.

Space is a womb which gives birth to either emptiness or fullness, and form is a cradle which simultaneously embraces both emptiness and fullness as a whole. In computer programming (C/C++), space is a union type and form is a struct type. And since emptiness and fullness are two sides of a dyad, it is not hard to fancy that space is a boolean variable (aka "bool") and form is a set of all boolean values.

<032>

What appears to be troublesome, though, is the fact that I have been treating space as a singleton here. Common sense tells us that there must be a multitude of spatial locations in our universe, each of which is occupied by its own material state. Plurality should apply not only to the dualism of our senses (such as the opposition between emptiness and fullness), but also to the notion that there are more than one place in which our senses possess the right to dwell.

But here is a question; in which circumstance do we say that there are "multiple places"?

Have we always been observing every single object in our universe simultaneously, we would've not been able to assure that space consists of more than one location.

The reason why we do not believe that the whole world is just a single point is that, at each moment, we only manage to perceive a tiny subset of what we can ever perceive.

Some may argue that this line of logic is flawed, by telling that it does not account for the possibility of entities appearing and disappearing over time at a fixed spot, which will then create an illusion of motion from one position to another. Such a proposition, however, holds true only when we imagine that time is something that is fundamentally separate from space. Inside the panorama of spacetime, different points in time (i.e. past, present, and future) are indistinguishable from different points in space, and nothing really "changes" over time on a holistic level.

If our domain of experience is made out of two atomic sensations called "emptiness" and "fullness", we will be able to say that the act of beholding either emptiness or fullness (but not both) occurs when the scope of observation is confined to one of at least two discrete places, for there must be somewhere outside of one's range of vision which sustains the "other sensation" that is not being seen immediately but can potentially be seen.

Neither the idea of space (i.e. emptiness OR fullness) nor the idea of form (i.e. emptiness AND fullness) renders a moment of either exclusively observing emptiness or exclusively observing fullness. There are of course two elementary ideas which are called "emptiness" and "fullness", respectively, yet they are purely conceptual entities, independent of spatial presence.

Here is the thing. Suppose that there are multiple positions in space, and that my field of view is currently trapped inside one of them. I only feel emptiness surrounding myself, yet I know that there is also the idea of fullness which does not "exist" in the sense of being present right before my face but still "exists" in the sense that it has the potency to present itself later on.

The overall implication of this becomes quite clear once we break it down to bite-sized pieces.

First of all, I am certain that I only feel emptiness right at the present moment. This means that, if I am to represent the current scenario as a single idea, it will be obliged to involve "emptiness" as one of its components.

Secondly, I know that there is some chance of feeling either emptiness or fullness at another moment. The content of this "another moment", therefore, ought to depict itself as "emptiness OR fullness", which is synonymous with "space".

Thus, the whole situation must be defined as the state of coexistence between the (1) "feeling of emptiness" and the (2) "possibility of feeling either emptiness or fullness".

And as you may have already realized, this is just a verbose way of defining a composition between emptiness and space. The same logic applies to the case of fullness, too.

<033>

The idea of "emptiness AND space" is one of at least 2 positions in space which is entirely filled with emptiness, and the idea of "fullness AND space" is one of at least 2 positions in space which is entirely filled with fullness.

(Will be continued in volume 15)






:d:On the metaphysical foundation of existence and the reality which surrounds it.
:k:Metaphysics, Ontology, Theosophy, Theology, Theism, Computer Science, Philosophy
:l:2023-11-18

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 15] November 18, 2023

(Continued from volume 14)

A digital computer is an elegant reality simulator; its internal state is a long sequence of 0s and 1s, wherein 0 could be interpreted as "emptiness" and 1 could be interpreted as "fullness".

Each binary digit (aka "bit") is an instance of the idea of space because it is capable of disclosing either 0 (emptiness) or 1 (fullness) in a fairly stochastic manner once we observe it. And as demonstrated in the prior volume, the availability of two or more of such instances (aka "positions") must be presumed as long as we decide to create a composition between either (1) emptiness and space, or (2) fullness and space.

<034>

A technical implication of this should be best expressed in the context of a state machine. Suppose that the mind of any conscious being is just a single FSM (Finite State Machine) which comprises two states that may be referred to as "feeling emptiness" and "feeling fullness", such that whenever it feels emptiness, its mental state belongs to the former, and whenever it feels fullness, its mental state belongs to the latter.

<035>

While feeling emptiness, we know that emptiness is definitely present in our mind, as well as that such a state of cognition can either stay in emptiness or transition into fullness. And while feeling fullness, we know that fullness is definitely present in our mind, as well as that such a state of cognition can either stay in fullness or transition into emptiness.

The idea of "emptiness AND space" (as well as "fullness AND space"), therefore, can be thought of as a combination between the current state (i.e. left side of the AND relation) and its possible set of transitions (i.e. right side of the AND relation).

The state diagram above can easily be imagined as a succinct depiction of a physical realm which consists of a network of spatial locations, each of which is either empty or full. The aforementioned state machine (i.e. the observer) would then be a spectator which traverses such points in space whilst perceiving only one of them at a given moment.

<036>

This is not the end of the story, for sure. You know that our senses are not so binary on a macroscopic level; they are oftentimes grayscale in appearance.

In order to be able to handle such fine-grained differences, we must realize that this is what introduces dimensions to our system of quantitative reasoning. We need a dimension to represent a spectrum of senses rather than just a simple dichotomy. The question is, what are dimensions made out of?

One thing to note is that they do not necessarily differ from the concepts we have hitherto been witnessing on a fundamental level. As long as we allow a dimension to have any finite range and resolution, we may imagine that a pair of values (i.e. a dyad) is the simplest kind of dimension one can ever conceive.

<037>

Since a dimension is a carrier of differences, a single value (i.e. sample point) cannot identify itself as a dimension. A pair of values, on the other hand, qualifies as one because it involves the concept of differentiation. As we add more values, we see that its axis gets more and more granular.

But how does this process of "adding more values" occur, exactly? A breeze of intuition lets me just draw a line on a sheet of paper and keep dividing it into smaller and smaller segments, thereby "proving" that it is possible to come up with a dimension and increase its resolution to whichever degree we desire. However, it is such a clumsy way of defining what a dimension really is from a meta-mathematical point of view.

A more logical method is to resort back to the pattern of abstraction/composition and start building from there. We have already seen that the idea of "form" is a mixture between one instance of emptiness and one instance of fullness, without any suggestion of one of them being greater than the other in terms of their ratio.

The thing is, nothing really stops us from combining the idea of form itself (i.e. emptiness AND fullness) with pure emptiness, in which case we get "emptiness AND (emptiness AND fullness)" as the product. It consists of 2 instances of emptiness and 1 instance of fullness, just like a water molecule consists of 2 hydrogen atoms and 1 oxygen atom.

The same exact pattern applies to the case of fullness, in which we have "fullness AND (emptiness AND fullness)" - the combination between 2 instances of fullness and 1 instance of emptiness.

<038>

This sort of formulation can repeat itself in a recursive manner, from which any fraction of two positive integers is able to emerge as a ratio between the two binary components. As we gather such fractions and line them up in an ordered sequence (under the guidance of some "ordering law"), we see that such a construct qualifies as the axis of a dimension.

This reveals that a "dimension" can be defined as a rule under which a set of ideas can be arranged in a strictly ascending (or descending) order. In our particular case, it is based upon the ratio between the number of instances of emptiness and the number of instances of fullness.

(Will be continued in volume 16)









:d:On the symbolism of metaphysical and ontological ideas.
:k:Metaphysics, Worldview, Symbolism, Archetype, Collective Unconscious, Symbols
:l:2023-11-22

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 16] November 22, 2023

(Continued from volume 15)

It has been shown that one of the stepping stones of geometric reasoning, known as "dimension", is able to be defined in terms of ideas and their combinations. As long as we assume that ideas are discrete and indivisible atoms of thought, we are free to imagine that each of their compounds reveals a specific quantitative ratio.

Such ratios, by nature of recursion, come in a variety of shades standing between the two extremes of our senses (i.e. emptiness and fullness). And together they comprise a dimension once they manage to line up as an ordered list.

But instead of delving too much into the endless well of technicality, let us step aside a bit and go back to the initial philosophical motivation which gave birth to the concept of emptiness, fullness, and their relations.

In order to fully comprehend the meaning of what we've seen so far, we must borrow the power of symbolism and leverage it for the sake of endowing our vision with human qualities.

In Western civilization, there used to be a notion that our material realm is made out of 4 elements - Water, Air, Earth, and Fire. This, of course, is regarded as a myth in today's standard.

When it comes to metaphorical connotations, however, one cannot simply deny that this 4-element model plays a huge role in shaping people's worldview due to its prevalence. Its symbolic nature is of importance not because we are disciples of pseudoscience, but because we know that it contributes to the way in which we, as cultural beings, interpret the world around us in a figurative manner.

<039>

At the root of the hierarchy of our universe, there is Water - the primordial birthplace of all substances. It is the fountain from which every worldly being springs into existence, and it is the ultimate source of everything we are able to grasp, feel, and express in our language. It is the one, and only one pool of all possibilities from which every conceivable permutation of senses arises.

<040>

Then there comes the pure essence of every matter. It begins with the dualism of the two elements, Air and Earth, whose mutual contrast creates the horizon and splits the monotony of the void into cogitable duos which are characterized by "up and down", "front and back", "near and far", "in and out", "good and bad", "light and dark", "hot and cold", and other manifold interpretations.

<041>

Their dichotomous nature opens up the gateway to the fourth element, Fire, which fuels the furnace of synthesis and its divergent consequences. It is the site of fusion wherein multiple things embrace one another and merge into one collective body of existence, thereby yielding a composite whole which brings forth its own phantasmagoria of complexity.

Water is the impetus from which Air and Earth emerge as two opposing forces. These two dwell in a constant state of alternation between conflict and harmony, driven by the dynamism of Fire - the engine of fusion which, by nature of combinatorics, bakes a plethora of intricate forms.

These four elements altogether let the whole web of ideas blossom in the midst of primeval nothingness (i.e. Ether).

Ether is the root of space (Water), and space is what gives birth to the duality of our perception (Air and Earth). From this duality and its means of combination (Fire), all the rest of the universe is born.

What has been illustrated so far is just one of many symbolic representations. What is really important is the abstract meaning it conveys, and the role of symbolism is to help us envisage it in a tangible form.

It is not hard to find a modern reenactment of such a metaphorical construct. Those who have been immersed in the fictional world of Starcraft, one of the bestselling videogames made by Blizzard, probably have noticed that the game's backstory revolves around the pancosmic race called "Xel'naga".

Xel'naga, in pursuit of creating the most perfect lifeform, gave birth to two experimental races - Protoss and Zerg. The design of Protoss was based on "Purity of Form", while the design of Zerg was based on "Purity of Essence".

Purity of Form indicates the organism's ability to formulate and maintain its most ideal form (i.e. structure), which is done by synthesizing various life-giving components in a quintessential manner. Such a way of evolution, however, was deemed too slow-paced by Xel'naga.

Purity of Essence, on the other hand, indicates the organism's ability to adapt its core metabolism to whichever environment it is exposed to. It is one's capability to grow on its own from the simplest to the most complex of all forms. Such a powerhouse of emergence, however, unleashed itself and swallowed its very creator (Xel'naga).

<042>

By careful observation, we come to notice that Purity of Essence is equivalent to Water because it is where growth originates, as well as that Purity of Form is equivalent to Fire because it is where elements fuse to yield sophisticated compounds.

And, as the underlying lore of Starcraft implies, totality is achieved when these two forces of creation come together and cooperate as one almighty being.

(Will be continued in volume 17)








:d:On the origin of dimensions and their underlying mathematical motivation.
:k:Metaphysics, Dimension, Mathematics, Epistemology, Computational Mathematics, Combinatorics
:l:2023-11-28

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 17] November 28, 2023

(Continued from volume 16)

In the last volume, I demonstrated the feasibility of interpreting the four primordial ideas as a set of traditional symbols - Water, Air, Earth, and Fire.

Such symbolism should not be taken too literally, though. They simply serve as a storytelling device, contrived to appeal to those who are not so fond of facing abstract concepts directly.

Figurative worldview aside, we ought to be aware of the fact that the origin of multidimensionality has not been explained here yet. Volume 15 already mentioned the feasibility of constructing a dimension and its fine-grained spectrum of values, yet it never described a method through which multiplicity of dimensions could disclose its presence.

Such a realization should probably concern anyone who is convinced that our world of perception reveals itself in discrete categories of qualia, such as visual, auditory, olfactory, and so forth.

Technically speaking, we could just partition our list of grayscale values into multiple segments and pretend that each of them represents a separate dimension. Yet such an approach is more or less a cunning trick, devised to circumvent the problem rather than solving it.

Let us revisit the procedural building blocks which have been introduced so far. Space (i.e. emptiness OR fullness) establishes itself as the "OR" operation between ideas, and Form (i.e. emptiness AND fullness) establishes itself as the "AND" operation between ideas. The former is the birthplace of the dual properties (i.e. emptiness, fullness), whereas the latter is the place in which they fuse into one.

By repeatedly applying the "AND" process over emptiness, fullness, and their AND-constructs, one is able to render a whole sequence of scalar values, each of which can be expressed as a fraction of integers. Such a sequence qualifies as a dimension as long as we exclude irrational numbers from our faculty of reasoning.

The two most extreme poles of our sensation may be worded as "emptiness" and "fullness", respectively. And one may theorize that an intermediate mixture between these two dwells somewhere in between. A decent analogy can be found in the case of auditory sense-data, in which "emptiness" is the lack of any sound, "fullness" is the loudest sound we can ever hear, and their fractional combination is a sound of a moderate volume.

The trouble resides in the plurality of our senses, though, for anyone can ask, "What about the brightness of light? What about hues and saturation of colors? What about the sense of touch, smell, taste, emotions, abstract feelings, and many others?"

So we do need some way of distinguishing different types of qualia from one another, aside from their levels of intensity.

What seems to be a real trick is that each of these types may not exist in complete isolation. Our intuition often drives us to associate certain colors (e.g. red, yellow, orange) with warmth, or crackling sound with squiggly geometric features. They are poetically related to each other in ways which are somewhat loose yet nevertheless explicable in our language.

Such blurriness, though, also evinces us the merit of not being too strict in terms of classification. We have a tendency to split our senses into fundamentally separate domains, yet such means of discretization may not be as axiomatic as it appears to be.

Suppose that a category of sensation is a point on a continuous line. In this context, it is valid to assume that two infinitely close points are equivalent to two categories which are almost identical to each other except for an infinitesimal difference; that is, it is not absurd to say that there could be categories which are qualitatively vague such as "slightly warm color", "slightly visible sound", and so on.

<043>

What this suggests is that it is possible to imagine our qualia as points on a two-dimensional plane, whose two coordinate axes represent the intensity-dimension and category-dimension, respectively. The former is the amount of force with which a stimulus penetrates through our sphere of cognition; it is the identifier of quantity. The latter tells us the direction in which a stimulus approaches our sphere of cognition; it is the identifier of quality.

<044>

Such a model, as long as it does not ground itself on tautology, successfully reduces our space of perception from one which is N-dimensional (where "N" is the total number of categories and each axis indicates the intensity level of each category) to one which is 2-dimensional (one dimension for the category and the other dimension for the intensity), thereby making it far easier to illustrate our qualia graphically.

The remaining problem is to figure out how to simultaneously express these two distinct dimensions in terms of ideas and their relations.

As we have already witnessed, formulating a single dimension can easily be done by aggregating the "AND" process over the initial duo (i.e. emptiness and fullness) in a recursive manner. The trouble begins when we try to instantiate two dimensions and make them coexist within the same idea space.

(Will be continued in volume 18)







:d:On computational representation of qualia and other ideas.
:k:Metaphysics, Cognitive Science, Discrete Math, Computational Psychology, Mechanical Psychology
:l:2023-12-03

[The Origin of Reality - Volume 18] December 3, 2023

(Continued from volume 17)

From a cognitive point of view, one may rightfully claim that the reality is an ensemble of ideas, and that a complex idea is nothing more than an assembly of simpler ones. The simplest of them are the two sides of a duality.

However, we typically reason in terms of numerical values, each of which belongs to a dimension. This leads us to feel the necessity to search for a bridge between the two theoretical constructs - one which renders an idea as a node in a network (i.e. graph), and the other one which renders an idea as a numerical range residing in a multidimensional vector space.

The portion of the bridge which has been revealed so far tells us that it is possible to translate a set of combinations between emptiness and fullness into a dimension by means of an ordering rule.

The other portion of the bridge which is yet to be fathomed is the method of representing not just one, but two dimensions - one for quantity (i.e. intensity of sensation), and the other one for quality (i.e. category of sensation). Once we have this figured out, we will be able to define any object of perception as a 2D vector.

Imagine that we are painting a canvas using only two colors - black and white. If we put these colors at the same spot, we will see that they mix up with each other and turn into a speck of gray. This is an instance of "positional coincidence", and is equivalent to the "AND" operation.

If we put black and white at two different spots, on the other hand, we will see two separate specks of color at two different locations. This coexistence is a neutral (i.e. "co-gray") entity which is not really a "mixture" of the two colors, but their "co-mixture" instead. It is the underlying abstraction called "color" which manifests itself in either black or white by means of the "OR" operation.

<045>

Just as we can generate countless shades of gray by mixing ("AND"-ing) a sufficiently large number of black and white specks, so can we generate countless "shades" of the very idea of color itself by co-mixing ("OR"-ing) a sufficiently large number of black and white specks. The former is done by putting black and white at the same exact position on the canvas over and over, whereas the latter is done by scattering black and white all over the canvas, thereby rendering a picture.

Such a piece of fine art is not a single shade of gray (i.e. quantity), but a unique black-and-white scenery involving its own set of figures and their underlying narratives (i.e. quality).

As we have witnessed before, recursive application of the "AND" relation gives birth to varying degrees of quantity. In contrast, recursive application of the "OR" relation gives birth to varying degrees of quality (i.e. categories of imagination), each of which is characterized by a collection of numerous black and white dots which altogether constitute a unique shape.

<046>

Thus, it is not hard to say that the two ways of synthesizing a pair of ideas (i.e. "AND" and "OR") correspond to the two opposing ways of describing the two dimensions of our perception - intensity (i.e. quantity) and category (i.e. quality). The intensity-dimension is the result of repeating the "AND" process, while the category-dimension is the result of repeating the "OR" process.

Let us suppose that there is a light of intensity 2/3. And let us also suppose that the category of this sensation, which is called "light", is indicated by the number 1/3. In other words, this particular light is a compound idea which is made out of two numerical values corresponding to two dimensions - one being its intensity (= 2/3), and the other one being its category (= light = 1/3). The intensity value can be defined as "emptiness AND fullness AND fullness", whereas the category value can be defined as "emptiness OR emptiness OR fullness". This is because 2/3 is the 2-to-1 ratio between fullness and emptiness, whereas 1/3 is the 1-to-2 ratio between fullness and emptiness.

This means that the idea of "light of intensity 2/3", as a whole, is simply a composition (i.e. "AND" relation) between its intensity (2/3) and category (1/3).

<047>

This sort of reasoning can continue on and on, gradually filling up the two spectrums of manifold values, one being a dimension made up of repeated "AND" procedures and the other one being a dimension made up of repeated "OR" procedures. Anyone may take a pair of values from these two dimensions, fuse them into one, and declare that it is a particular instance of our sensation.

<048>

And as we keep connecting such atoms of perception together with additional rounds of "AND" and "OR", we will discover more and more complex ideas, each of which is a collective sum of myriads of elementary (indivisible) qualia.