:d:An article about the future of blockchains and distributed finance.
:k:Blockchain, DeFi, dApp, Miner, Hashpower, Bitcoin, Ethereum, BSV, Proof-of-Work, Smart-Contract

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 1] 2022.11

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 1)

When it comes to blockchain technology, one must be careful to observe the benefits/risks involved within it.

Ever since the dawn of Bitcoin, there have been numerous models of consensus in the realm of distributed finance. The most popular and original model is PoW (Proof of Work), which validates transactions based on who spent the most amount of computational energy (aka "hash power") to find out one of the input values of a cryptographic hash function which results in a certain number of consecutive zeroes. This, however, quickly raises a couple of questionable problems. First of all, validation of transaction blocks based on who goes through the searching process the fastest inevitably leads to lots of electrical energy being wasted.

Also, individual miner nodes can all converge into one gigantic mining pool and dominate the hash race, which means that some kind of "mining monopoly" is bound to happen. Eventually, the implication of PoW is that a single enormous mining pool which dominates more than half of the blockchain's hash power will be capable of controlling and manipulating the way transactions are being processed.

Of course, Satoshi Nakamoto's initial whitepaper clearly states that anyone who has dominated the blockchain in terms of hash power won't be willing to validate transactions in any fraudulent manner whatsoever, since doing so will critically harm the legitimacy of the blockchain and thus harm the economic interests of those who own the dominant mining pool. However, this is only true if the blockchain itself is actively competing with other financial protocols by which it can be replaced. What if, for example, Bitcoin really manages to become the world's most popular currency, so incomparably popular that it even replaces the reserve currency status of the United States dollars?

If the popularity of Bitcoin reaches such a level of pervasion in the global economy, people will no longer be able to just reject the authenticity of its blockchain protocol and stop using it no matter how corrupt it gets. Can we simply ignore the existence of U.S. dollars if we don't like the way the Federal Reserve keeps printing it out without even basing its value upon the gold standard? Of course not, since the USD occupies the core part of the economy and thus rejecting it will lead us nowhere but a financial apocalypse.

The same story goes with any PoW-based cryptocurrency. Once it beats out all competitors, anyone who is in charge of its largest mining pool will be entitled to manipulate the way the blockchain works. And no one will be able to do anything about it unless they have the courage to invent their own independent economic system.






:d:An article about the future of blockchains and distributed finance.
:k:Blockchain, Bitcoin, BTC, ETH, Wallet, Satoshi, Nakamoto, Mining, Hashgraph, Ripple, Stellar, XLM

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 2] 2022.11

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 2)

Some people argue that, by exposing the identity of every blockchain node in public and letting people monitor the decency of its size in terms of computational power as well as the authenticity of its transactional decisions, we can ensure an idealistic scenario in which a fair number of nodes with similar hash powers can coexist in a state of perpetual competition (thereby preventing one anonymous mining pool from taking over the entire network). This, however, raises a major question.

If each node in the blockchain is expected to be publicly identified and monitored, what's the point of using the PoW (Proof of Work) algorithm in the first place? The reason why Satoshi Nakamoto and other pioneers of Bitcoin came up with such an obnoxiously inefficient method of consensus was that it allowed fully anonymous participants of the blockchain to validate each other's transactions without having to worry about Sybil attacks (because, if nodes are anonymous, even a single person can create a bunch of anonymous nodes for the purpose of casting an unfairly huge number of votes during each decision-making process). If all nodes have clear identities (i.e. no duplicates that were made effortlessly), all we need to do is just let them cast votes on a "one-vote-per-node" basis and make them reach consensus whenever more than half of those votes agree on the validity of the most recent block.

And the reason why I am mentioning this is that some of the proponents of big-block cryptocurrencies such as BSV (Bitcoin Satoshi Vision) are claiming that a blockchain being maintained by a group of publicly exposed large-scale nodes (ones that are operated by institutions which are financially stable/authentic enough to handle enormous block sizes) will solve not only the problem of prohibitively high transaction fees, but also the problem of monopoly and corruption among the anonymous (and thus unregulated) swarm of nodes. What they are overlooking is that we don't really need a PoW-based blockchain to achieve this.







:d:An article about the future of blockchains and distributed finance.
:k:Blockchain, DeFI, PoW, PoS, Cryptocurrency, Cryptowallet, Cryptokitties, Bitcoin

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 3] 2022.11

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 3)

Another major weakness of PoW blockchains is that they are too vulnerable against regulations. Since the process of reaching consensus by grinding the computational power of a bunch of graphics cards is extremely energy-consuming, the government can easily spot the precise location of any miner by detecting a location in the electric grid which yields high usage of electricity. If the government decides to ban PoW-based cryptocurrency mining altogether, they will be able to do so pretty easily.

Someone may claim that such a type of regulation will inadvertently help the blockchain ecosystem circumvent the problem of "mining monopoly" by only allowing small miners to escape its means of enforcement (i.e. high power consumption). This, however, is more or less an illusion.

A mining pool which occupies an unreasonably huge portion of the blockchain's hash rate doesn't have to be concentrated in one particular geographic location. Since all nodes are connected through the internet, small pieces of mining hardware spread all over the world can simply merge their respective hash powers together in one anonymous pool and use it to dominate the blockchain's mining process. In such a case, consumption of energy won't be particularly high at any particular point in space; it will simply be evenly distributed across the globe.

And if we are to let this happen, what we are going to see is an even nastier form of corruption inside the blockchain in which only those who are wealthy enough to distribute their hash power throughout the world possess the privilege to dominate the mining industry. This will be reminiscent of bootlegging which proliferated during the alcohol prohibition of the United States from 1920 to 1933.





:d:An article about the future of blockchains and distributed finance.
:k:Proof-of-Burn, Proof-of-Personhood, IDENA, iDNA, Proof-of-Stake, Half-Life

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 4] 2022.11

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 4)

Besides, the fact that mining a block in a PoW blockchain requires the miner to pay high prices for electricity (due to high consumption of energy) implies that virtually no one will be willing to undertake the mining work once the cost of mining exceeds the amount of reward they are guaranteed to receive in exchange.

Let's take BTC (Bitcoin) as an example. After the end of each half life, its mining reward halves. This means that, eventually, only the transaction fee itself will be the sole compensation being handed over to the miner. If the transaction fee is too low, miners won't be willing to mine because the cost it takes to receive the fee will be greater than the fee itself. If the transaction fee is too high, people won't be willing to trade with the blockchain's unit of exchange anymore. Either way, a PoW-based blockchain with a hard limit in its total supply of currency in circulation (such as Bitcoin (BTC)) faces a huge risk of eventual collapse.

One could suggest that keeping the base mining reward at a reasonable level aside from the half-life cycle will fix the problem, yet it inevitably creates perpetual inflation. Sure, it won't be too much of an issue if the rate of inflation is not too drastic. But, will it be really possible to keep the rate of inflation sufficiently low while also presenting miners with a constant base mining reward that is higher than the cost of electricity and the necessary human effort combined? I am not exactly sure about this, since it involves so many macroeconomic factors.

A potential solution to this dilemma would be to "burn off" a portion of each transaction's incurred fee for the sake of partially cancelling out the rate of inflation. This, however, is hardly anything more than a blockchain equivalent of the daylight-saving time. In order to drain part of the currency in circulation, either the staker or end user will still have to pay additional fees which are to be burned off.






:d:An article about the future of blockchains and distributed computing.
:k:Blockchain, Hashgraph, Gossip-of-Gossips, Gossip-Protocol, P2P, Peer-to-Peer, Decentralized

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 5] 2022.11

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 5)

Some people have proposed that, by making each block of transactions sufficiently large (e.g. tens or even hundreds of MB instead of being bound under BTC's 1MB limit), we can keep the average transaction fee reasonably low even if there be no external mining reward whatsoever. This is because more transactions mean less price paid by each.

This, however, only allows large-scale institutions (e.g. companies, organizations, etc) to participate as the blockchain's miner nodes; individuals and small groups won't be able to afford to store big-blocks as well as handle their massive network bandwidth. And it means that only institutions that are big enough (so big that they are easily recognized by the public) will be able to mine blocks in such an environment.

This is fine for most parts, since small miners usually choose to join a mining pool instead of just mining on their own, which is a functional equivalent to a single mining entity anyways. From an end-user's point of view, there doesn't seem to be a noticeable difference.

If individual miners are all publicly identifiable institutions, however, why should we bother to validate transactions based on the principle of PoW in the first place? Wouldn't it be a rather easy Byzantine Generals problem of simply casting virtual votes in a gossip protocol, since the identity of every one of its participants must be transparent? Furthermore, if a government under an oppressive regime decides to ban blockchains altogether, wouldn't this semi-centralized mining plan be so helplessly vulnerable against it?

And if we are supposed to welcome any kind of government-driven currency regulation, why bother to use a blockchain at all instead of just relying on the CBDC?






:d:An article about the future of blockchains and distributed computing.
:k:Hashnet, Tangle, DAG, Crypto, Cryptography, Layer-2, Tor, Onion-Routing, Cryptocurrency, Ledger

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 6] 2022.11

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 6)

It is also important to mention that layer 2 (off-chain) solutions are often being presented as means of overcoming the blockchain's intrinsic limitations. Protocols such as Bitcoin's Lightning Network, Ethereum's ZK-Rollups, and Optimistic rollups, all strive to solve the intrinsic bandwidth/cost problems of the on-chain network by performing a huge number of off-chain transactions and only committing their end-result to the blockchain. A decent analogy would be that, when shopping at a grocery store, the customer doesn't make a separate payment for every individual product; the cashier just sums up the fees of all the purchased items and issues a single transaction based upon the sum.

Such off-chain transactions are indeed pretty safe from a security point of view, since the combined usage of hash-code comparison and asymmetric cryptography allows the content of each off-chain transaction to be hidden from intermediaries, while also being tamper-proof. And the identities of all the intermediaries, senders, and recipients, can all be nicely hidden from the eye of the public (for the sake of not giving the society a chance to selectively exclude certain "unfavorable" individuals from engaging in financial activities), since each off-chain transaction can be issued through a complex network of anonymous agents, each of whom doesn't necessarily know about each other. This is a nice functional equivalent of onion routing. Hence, such a set of anonymous interactions can all take place inside the deep web (via Tor browser or so) in order to add yet another layer of security on top of the whole pool of interactions. How nice is this?

The involvement of layer 2 solutions, however, raises a couple of concerns. Although the end-results of their off-chain processes are directly tied to the blockchain itself, layer 2 solutions introduce a bunch of "holes" through which various scammers can sneak in and fool the end users using all sorts of fabricated "facades" of services instead of the actual services themselves.

When we are using only the blockchain's main (layer 1) protocol, all we need to do is simply install a single application which directly interacts with the blockchain's nodes (e.g. Bitcoin Wallet). As long as we make sure to hide our private keys and pass phrases, we do not have to worry about being scammed because this standalone program will handle everything related to transactions. When we are using layer 2 protocols, however, we are relying on centralized local services which may have chances of losing your line of transactions or stealing your confidential user info (unless you are well-versed in blockchain technology and have time to monitor the whole process of how exactly they are handling your data, etc).







:d:An article about the future of blockchains and distributed computing.
:k:nChain, Blockchain, Distributed-Ledger, Cryptowallet, PoW, PoS, Proof-of-Space, Helium, Cryptogame

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 7] 2022.11

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 7)

I would like to also mention the pros and cons of yet another means of consensus called PoS (Proof of Stake). One major advantage of PoS over PoW is that it hardly requires any more power consumption to maintain the blockchain than to participate in other activities on the internet (e.g. visiting websites, chatting, streaming videos, trading stocks, etc). It is because nodes in a PoS network simply "stake" their financial assets as means of assigning credit to each transactional block instead of undertaking massive computational operations. This is a good news not only in terms of energy efficiency, but also in terms of keeping transaction fees at a reasonable level.

PoS, however, creates even greater risks of plutocracy than PoW because money alone is the sole factor in determining the authenticity of transactions here. If rich nodes are allowed to stake incomparably high sums of cryptocurrency during each staking process, they can effectively dominate the administrative authority of the entire blockchain.

Of course, there are numerous methods to prevent this kind of mischief. The maximum amount of currency which can be staked by each individual node can have its own limit, and there could also be a pseudo-random allocation algorithm which forces nodes to stake only for randomly assigned blocks instead of just letting them choose their own. Furthermore, the blockchain itself could be divided into separate "shards" so as to discourage stakers from establishing some kind of "staking monopoly" over the entire blockchain.

Even such a set of clever solutions, however, won't completely fix the problem of plutocracy in a PoS blockchain because anyone who owns an inexplicably huge sum of money can just create an extremely high number of nodes, each of which still has more balance to stake than the majority of other nodes. If the number of nodes is sufficiently large, even sharding and random allocation will fail to completely prevent the eventual dominance of a single body of capital.







:d:An article about the future of blockchains and distributed computing.
:k:E-Commerce, Digital, Marketing, Distributed, Decentralized, Defi, dApp, DAG, Blockchain, Digital-Distribution

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 8] 2022.11

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 8)

From a purely technological standpoint, the blockchain technology is more than promising. The way a blockchain manages to allow all customers to keep track of one shared record of all financial activities, without having to rely on trusted third parties, is without a doubt a pure win in terms of efficiency and safety. Since the administrative power of a distributed web application (dApp) can be shared by any number of nodes, the entire network is highly DDoS-resistant and possesses the ability to recover itself even when a significant portion of it gets damaged.

We must acknowledge, however, that such an obvious technological advantage is not necessarily self-evident to an end user.

Let's imagine a customer who is shopping online. A traditional e-commerce website will require the person to either enter a debit/credit card number, connect a PayPal account, or use a mobile application to make a payment. This, for sure, involves one or more trusted third parties.

Now let's imagine that the customer decides to visit a brand new e-commerce website which uses a Web3 framework in order to let anyone pay in a "better" way. But alas! Can this really be considered "better" in terms of user experience?

The website will first require the user to set up a crypto wallet (if it hasn't been installed yet). Not only that, the user will also have to fund this brand new crypto wallet with a decent amount of cryptocurrency, since its initial balance is zero. And in order to do that, one must either use a debit/credit card or a direct bank-transfer protocol to move a decent amount of fiat currency to a crypto-exchange service. This external service, in turn, will have to trade the deposited fiat currency with a cryptocurrency and then hand it over to the user's new crypto wallet. Only after all these processes are over, the customer will be able to proceed with crypto-payments.

Okay. Let's admit. Once a crypto wallet is fully set up, all subsequent transactions issued directly from it will be far more secure than traditional means of payment because third parties will no longer be involved. It is the process of initial funding, however, which seriously tempts the end user to raise an eyebrow.








:d:An article about the future of blockchains and distributed computing.
:k:Binance, Coinbase, FTX, Blockchain, Bitcoin, Ether, Huobi, Changelly, Crypto-Exchange, Cryptocurrency

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 9] 2022.11

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 9)

Just step outside of the pure beauty of Web3's backend system and see what its frontend looks like from a layman's perspective.

If the customer is required to pay fiat currency through a traditional method of payment (e.g. PayPal) just for the purpose of initially funding one's crypto wallet, what is the person going to think?

Wouldn't the customer simply say to him/herself: "Hey, wait a minute. What's the point of setting up a crypto wallet, if I am still required to enter my credit card number to start making payments? Isn't the Web3 technology supposed to get rid of all these potentially insecure processes?"

The problem lies on the fact that we are still requiring the customer to use a centralized exchange system (e.g. Binance, Coinbase, Changelly, Huobi, etc) as well as a centralized banking system, despite the fact that we are expected to provide a "fully decentralized service" to everyone without involving any of these central authorities. Such a counter-intuitive aspect of a typical Web3 application is what encourages people to simply dismiss the whole branding of Web3 as a mere scam.

In order for a cryptocurrency-based web framework to attract customers who are not yet familiar with the long-term prospects of cryptocurrencies, it must be able to provide services to them without requiring them to pay any fiat currency whatsoever. This is the only way through which it can convince them that it really is using a brand new technology, independent of any traditional means of payment (thereby creating a psychological assurance that it won't try to give itself any chance to steal money from the customer's bank account). But how?

First of all, we cannot just summon cryptocurrency out of thin air and hand it over to a new user. If we do this over and over again for every new customer (Don't forget that a "new customer" can simply be one of many duplicate accounts made by a single person), the inflation will be so severe that the currency's value will dwindle. So we cannot just keep air-dropping forever.





:d:An article about the future of blockchains and distributed computing.
:k:BSV, P2P, Paymail, Moneybutton, Handcash, Satoshi-Vision, Bitcoin, Blockchain, Web3

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 10] 2022.11

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 10)

Fortunately, there are ways to solve the problem of initial funding.

What the blockchain will need is its own method of giving rewards to activities that can easily be performed by any personal computer with a zero-balance crypto wallet, rather than just the blockchain's fundamental means of operation such as mining or staking. Mining is too hard for personal computers to undertake because it is dominated by large mining pools and their massive parallel-arrangements of GPUs and ASIC. Staking, on the other hand, is not able to become a means of initial funding because an empty crypto wallet cannot possibly stake its fund (because it has no fund at all!).

What can a personal computing device with a zero-balance account do, then, to earn a consumable amount of cryptocurrency without requiring the blockchain to mint coins out of thin air?

The blockchain itself operates on a P2P networking protocol, which means that there are lots of message-routing involved in it aside from the core means of consensus such as mining/staking. Such routing processes can be undertaken by any computing device (even a cheap mobile phone) that is connected to other blockchain nodes, as passing a message from one peer to another is an extremely trivial work (And it doesn't incur any additional fees other than the cost of using the internet). What if we require each message-sender of the blockchain network to include a "digital postage stamp" in each message it sends in order to pay anyone for routing? When a node issues a new transaction, for example, it can attach an "add-on transaction" on top of the main transaction which guarantees that, when the main transaction becomes part of the blockchain, it will also automatically pay a small routing fee to the one who routed the transactional data.

By allowing a new customer's crypto wallet to silently carry out a series of routing tasks underneath the surface and get paid for it, a Web3 application can ensure to fill up the initially empty wallet with at least SOME amount of cryptocurrency for the person to spend (without requiring any kind of fiat-currency exchange). This is how Web3 will be able to convince the general public that it really is a brand new technology, capable of existing on its own without depending on centralized third-party services.








:d:An article about the future of blockchains and distributed computing.
:k:Craig-Wright, BSV, Satoshi, Nakamoto, Bitcoin, BTC, Blockchain, sCrypt, Distributed-Currency, P2P-Cash, eCash

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 11] 2022.12

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 11)

Even with a neatly furnished website and a highly accessible wallet interface, however, it would be quite a bold statement to say that a blockchain-based payment solution is capable of overtaking the traditional e-commerce infrastructure.

The reason does not lie upon the feasibility of its underlying technology, but rather upon the public's perception that there is nothing apparently superior in distributed economy as opposed to centralized economy from a purely user-experience standpoint.

Have the idea of fundamental human rights been the focal point of people's primary interests, a customer would have easily been convinced that a distributed computing system is the next cornerstone of our technological progress, as it grants us a protocol which guarantees an utmost degree of freedom, privacy, and equity in terms of finance. From a day-to-day experience point of view, however, we must be honest enough to ourselves to admit that most consumers do not care about such ethical standards; all they desire is to find a quicker way to get themselves to store aisles that have 50% discount labels on them.

So, how to convince the vast majority of people to begin using cryptocurrencies aside from quasi-gambling purposes, to whom such abstract moral concepts are never likely to sell?

Well, here is a deal. In order for Web3 to compete with the traditional web, one must make sure that it offers customers a great user experience which is instantly recognizable without requiring any type of philosophical narrative. Many Web3 marketing pioneers try to show off that their services are allegedly superior to those of traditional means of payment by repeatedly displaying catchphrases alongside a bunch of hipster-esque flat art characters such as: "MAKE INTERNET FREE!", or: "THIS IS THE NEXT GENERATION OF MONEY!", and so forth. This may be effective in inducing quite a percentage of intellectual snobs to get their attention hooked, yet making them move beyond this initial stage of curiosity and seriously begin utilizing the advertised service on a regular basis is another story.








:d:An article about the future of cryptocurrency and distributed ledger.
:k:Web3, XRP, FBA, Byzantine-Fault, Consensus, Transaction, Distributed, Decentralized, Web3.0, KYC

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 12] 2022.12

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 12)

What a typical Web3 payment solution often misses is a user-friendly protocol which is more convenient and somehow more engaging to use than traditional means of exchange. Most customers do not care about the fundamental integrity of the system; they just want a system that works for them.

And from a user-friendliness point of view, having to require a protocol to go through the burden of painfully inefficient consensus mechanisms such as PoW (Proof of Work) or PoS (Proof of Stake) is a major performance bottleneck which takes away opportunities from Web3 services to beat out the reign of centralized services.

Therefore, a distributed financial infrastructure must base its primary means of operation on a kind of method which is both computationally efficient (i.e. no graphics card grinding and all that jazz) and possesses a means of issuing and resolving transactions that is clearly being perceived by the public as "swifter" than those of existing frameworks.

How do we discover such a method? With a fair bit of certainty, we can easily find myriads of alternative means of consensus when it comes to distributed finance. Cryptocurrency protocols such as Ripple (XRP) and Stellar Lumens (XLM) are capable of resolving transactional uncertainties based upon FBA (Federated Byzantine Agreement), which consists of a network of partially overlapping voting groups whose members must be manually invited by other existing members of each group to which they belong. The process of manual invitation ensures that no bots (or "zombie PCs") can register themselves as new members of those groups, since it creates chances for existing members to evaluate the legitimacy of newcomers based on human interactions (e.g. chatting).

The problem with such a manual process is that a user cannot just open up a new account and start participating in the network without being invited by others, which can often be more of a hassle than just buying some crypto through a centralized exchange and using it. One way to bypass this would be to establish a centralized KYC (Know Your Customer) protocol in which the user proves the validity of one's unique identity by presenting a certified ID material (such as a passport or a driver license), yet this ensues a great fear of being scammed and thus is an optimal way to discourage prospective customers from using the service.








:d:An article about blockchains, cryptocurrency, and other distributed financial protocols.
:k:PoP, PoW, Transaction, Blockchain, Cryptocurrency, Wallet, Cryptography, CBDC, IDENA, iDNA, Decentralized, Digital-Cash, Token

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 13] 2022.12

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 13)

The aforementioned means of consensus are often referred to as PoI (Proof of Identity), which is problematic in its own right because it does not necessarily grant the benefit of anonymity to its participants. Some critics may dismiss the potentially disastrous implications of this by saying, "Why would you want to be fully anonymous, if it is not part of your intention to commit an act of crime?" However, it is my persistent conviction that such a direction of reasoning, whether it has been devised intentionally or unintentionally, bears in it a subtle form of gaslighting.

One's right to choose not to become part of an authoritative body's domain of supervision does indeed possess its own set of pragmatic disadvantages (such as more chances for criminals to undertake their underground activities), yet it is oftentimes a necessary condition to guarantee the preservation of one's freedom of choice because identifiability opens up a pathway for those who have the administrative power to selectively destroy individuals whose activities are deemed "unfavorable" to them.

There are yet another myriad of alternative consensus protocols, of course. PoP (Proof of Personhood), for example, has undergone interesting experiments via some of the most ambitious projects such as iDNA (IDENA). The way it works is that it ensures the uniqueness of personal identities by forcing their human agents to participate in various time-bound psychological puzzles which are too tricky for machines to solve and therefore require human beings to sit in front of their computers and dedicate a considerable portion of their time solving them. This is reminiscent of PoW (Proof of Work), except that only humans can do the required work in this case (not machines). However, such a human-centered framework drains so much time and mental energy from people, that it quickly becomes a massive nuisance after the initial stage of curiosity.






:d:An article about blockchains, cryptocurrency, and other distributed financial protocols.
:k:Blockchain, IOTA, Tangle, Hashgraph, PoRE, PoI, Cryptocurrency, Helium, HNT, PoC, DAG, Hedera

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 14] 2022.12

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 14)

Some distributed computing frameworks choose data structures that are drastially different from the so-called "blockchain", such as those which belong to the class of DAG (Directed Acyclic Graphs). IOTA and Hedera Hashgraph are typical examples of this, and they are in general way more efficient than blockchains due to the fact that they are not bottlenecking their sequences of transactions under a single chain of events.

These groundbreaking Web3 models, however, oftentimes evince critical flaws in terms of transactional integrity. Since a "transaction history" of a DAG is just one of many alternative paths which are interwoven in a complex web of connections, one can make a reasonable argument that its mode of consensus is significantly less tight and therefore less secure than that of a conventional blockchain. What if a small group of agents dedicate themselves to the creation of a fraudulent line of transactions by approving each other's activities in a fundamentally flawed yet pristinely coordinated manner? How will we be able to prove that this particular chain of events is flawed, while others are not?

There are also types of consensus logic which rely not only on purely computational and/or psychological rules, but also on the nature of physical entities. Distributed file storage ecosystems such as Filecoin, for instance, use PoRep (Proof of Replication) and PoSt (Proof of Spacetime) for the purpose of incentivizing people who keep storing/sharing specific pieces of data in their home computers. One may metaphorically describe this mechanism as some kind of "PoRE (Proof of Real Estate)" because its process of validation involves evidences which claim that the agents do indeed own and have full control over their physical storage spaces.

Another cryptocurrency called Helium (HNT) uses a rather unique method called PoC (Proof of Coverage), in which each participating node is a wireless transmitter (aka "hotspot") that proves its existential legitimacy by covering a specific geographical area within which it is able to send/receive signals. This is a pretty neat way of ensuring that none of the nodes of the network is a fake, zombie account. And just like the aforementioned means of consensus, it can metaphorically equate itself to the concept of "PoRE (Proof of Real Estate)" because literal occupation of space is the primary medium of witnessing the uniqueness of identities here as well.






:d:An article about blockchains, cryptocurrency, and other distributed financial protocols.
:k:PoSt, Blockchain, Polkadot, Tezos, Flow, Polygon, Cardano, Crypto, Wallet, Solana, UTXO

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 15] 2022.12

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 15)

Will spatial consensus algorithms such as PoSt (Proof of Spacetime) or PoC (Proof of Coverage) eventually rise above the impregnable fortress of already popular Web3 solutions such as Bitcoin and Ethereum, and manage to claim their legitimacy in terms of reliability and sustainability?

From a technical point of view, they seem to be reserving a solid ground of reason to support such a conjecture. By integrating the intrinsic limitations of physical entities to the system's means of operation, PoSt and PoC have been quite successful in ensuring the safety of their protocols in a classy, 19th century's natural philosophy type of confidence, not obscured by apparitions of ghostly cryptography which have been poisoning the sanity of our scientific minds ever since computer scientists began to turn themselves into esoteric code-interpreters during World War II.

What is for sure is that physical states of things such as data storage and hotspot coverage are significantly easier to be understood and therefore be appreciated by the general public. Most people (including a significant proportion of those who are fairly well-versed in the field of computer science) are not fond of trusting complex exercises of number theory as means of carrying out their important financial/legal operations; they want a level of conceptual transparency which can be comprehended with relative ease.

This, of course, comes at a cost of installing and maintaining physical apparatus such as a dedicated section of a hard drive for PoSt or a wireless transmitter for PoC, yet it is mostly a negligible nuisance because most home computers and home routers are capable of carrying out such tasks.

A real downside of these physical means of consensus is that they, too, are bound to risks of plutocracy. Just as transactional processes in PoW (Proof of Work) or PoS (Proof of Stake) blockchains can be monopolized by a single disproportionately large pool of computing devices or a large reserve of capital, PoSt and PoC protocols can easily be monopolized by traditional landlords who possess enough chunks of land to either dominate a PoSt network by filling them up with data centers, or dominate a PoC network by filling them up with hotspots.








:d:An article about blockchains, cryptocurrency, and other distributed financial protocols.
:k:UTXO, UtreeXO, SPV, Bitcoin, Satoshi, Blockchain, Cryptocurrency, Web3, Payment-Channel, Lightning-Network, Layer-2

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 16] 2022.12

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 16)

No matter which consensus mechanism we choose to use, it seems that a tendency of it to give birth to some kind of monopoly is just as self-evident as a law of nature. PoW (Proof of Work), PoS (Proof of Stake), PoI (Proof of Identity), PoSt (Proof of Spacetime), and other myriads of distributed protocols, regardless of how decentralizd their methods of operation are, all evince their own tendencies to continually accumulate small imbalances in the distribution of authoritative power, which can reasonably be expected to undergo a snowball effect of plunging themselves into a state of eventual centralization. For those who are aware of subtle flaws in the so-called "decentralized future", the promise that Web3 will lead the tomorrow of our financial system summons nothing more or less than an endless stream of doubts.

There is one remaining consensus algorithm, however, which possesses a unique power so witful enough to overcome the force of nature which would otherwise lead us to the peril of anarcho-capitalism. And that is, P2E (Play to Earn) game applications.

Now, I do not necessarily mean any class of P2E games when I mention this particular terminology. There are, without a doubt, countless examples of web games which brand themselves as "P2E" yet fail to showcase anything more than age-old Ponzi schemes, quasi-gambling, and tax evasion. Most of them are examples of nasty attempts to rip off people's wallets by making them reflect upon their fear of missing out the latest trends.

The kind of Play-to-Earn games which I am mentioning here have nothing to do with any of their notorious forms of trickery, such as trying to convince the audience that an unreasonably high price of "owning" a digital asset (e.g. NFT) is fully justified, or trying to sell people a notion that they can instantly turn themselves into millionaires by purchasing a couple of cheesy-looking collectibles in a videogame and fiddling with them in a virtual auction. It is not my intention to promote engagement in any of these groundless activities.

The kind of P2E games which I consider to be legitimate are ones which leverage the very nature of gameplay itself as the core mechanic of consensus in their blockchain framework.






:d:An article about blockchains, cryptocurrency, and other distributed financial protocols.
:k:dApp, Ethereum, ETH, ETC, Rollup, ZK, SNARK, Hash-Function, Pseudorandom, P2E, Blockchain, ASIC, Layer-2

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 17] 2022.12

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 17)

So far, P2E (Play to Earn) games have not been anything more than an attractive-looking facade devised to promote the usage of the Web3 infrastructure. Such a superficial form of marketing, however, has long been hiding the true potential of gameplay-oriented dApps (Distributed Applications).

Let us imagine a blockchain which bases its logical foundation upon countless interactions between videogame players as well as a virtual space in which they participate in the act of play, all happening inside a collective gameplay ecosystem. And let us venture ourselves into a hypothetical model of consensus in which the game's internal gameplay interactions act as the blockchain's primary means of validating transactions.

In a PoW (Proof of Work) network, agents must rely on the black magic of a cryptographic hash function for growing the chain of transactions and thus have no choice but yield the integrity of the decision-making process to those who have enough computational power to quickly grind through its pseudorandom table of input/output pairs. In a PoS (Proof of Stake) network, agents must yield transactional integrity to those who have the highest percentages of wealth to stake. Other kindred protocols, too, are not entirely free from accusations which claim that they are being "unfair" in terms of giving everybody a fair amount of voice when validating transactions.

A P2E-driven blockchain, on the other hand, is a radically different breed in its own right because its medium of validation is a complex interactive system (aka "game world") that is being shared among every one of its participating players, all collaboratively engaging themselves in the process of creating and amending every mechanical aspect of it.

What I am mentioning here is a perpetual feedback system that can be devised to operate as a self-evolving organic engine of the blockchain. A traditional blockchain framework would have merely established a fixed consensus algorithm and driven itself on top of it, which would have given opportunities for anyone who is insurmountably rich to simply grind one's capital for the purpose of occupying an unfairly enormous share of the network's dictatorial power, either by buying a large number of mining devices (e.g. graphics cards, ASICs) or by simply staking one's disproportionately high wallet balances. A P2E-blockchain is nothing like this; instead of depending its means of consensus on a fixed numerical algorithm, it leverages the dynamics of an ever-growing multiplayer gameplay ecosystem as the method of ensuring the integrity of transactions.







:d:An article about blockchains, cryptocurrency, and other distributed financial protocols.
:k:Blockchain, Game, Ethereum, Crypto, Collectible, SHA256, Bitcoin, Decentralized, Web3, Mining-Pool, Hash-War

[On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 18] 2022.12

(On Legitimacy of Blockchains - 18)

The whole point of leveraging the idea of P2E (Play to Earn) as the primary means of maintaining a state of consensus is to ensure that the blockchain's protocol is so unfathomably complex, that it is virtually impossible for even a highly sophisticated general-purpose AI system to exploit in order to get ahold of unfair advantage.

For ease of conveying the subtle beauty of the technology behind this, please let me explain the concept based on a slightly metaphorical analogy. Suppose that there is a blockchain which is being operated by a unique type of PoW (Proof of Work) consensus mechanism in a sense that it assures the presence of a node's computational work not by the fact that it has found a special input value to a cryptographic hash function (e.g. SHA256) which yields an output value with a special binary pattern, but by the fact that it has discovered a sequence of player inputs inside the game of chess which yields a specific result. Whenever a transaction gets issued, for instance, it can create a round of chess in which one of the virtual players generates a sequence of moves that are pseudo-randomly determined by the transaction's hash code. As soon as the game gets broadcasted throughout the network, miners can competitively try to come up with a sequence of moves of the opponent player which results in the opponent's victory. Anyone who first succeeds in doing so will receive the mining reward.

Now, of course, such a mining rule is easily exploitable by any software that is capable of traversing the game's tree of possibilities and quickly discovering one of its branches that leads to the win-condition. This is because the game of chess is merely a set of logical rules which do not change at all, which means the shape of the game's possibility space will never undergo any modification. It must be fairly easy for a computer, then, to find an optimal path upon the surface of such a static landscape.

Let us now imagine that there is yet another blockchain in which the mining logic operates not on a simple game with a collection of fixed rules (like chess), but on a multiplayer sandbox game in which the rules themselves can be periodically amended as a result of virtual votes being cast by its players. A PoW algorithm which runs upon such a dynamic system must be orders of magnitude more resilient to hackers than a static one because its possibility space is a fluid-like surface whose control points fluctuate at random moments in time due to random actions triggered by its human participants. Even the most advanced machine-learning program cannot decode the nature of such a living galaxy of chaos, governed by countless human souls each of which is a indecipherable body of complexity in its own right.